Continue reading the main story
For families who have lost a member to violence, the court case that follows often churns up a new bout of grief. That certainly is the case for the family of Colten Boushie, a 22-year-man from the Red Pheasant Cree Nation in Saskatchewan who was shot and killed by Gerald Stanley, a farmer on whose property Mr. Boushie and four other young Indigenous people appeared in August 2016.
Photo
Verna Denny, a former residential school student whose grandson, Colten Boushie, was shot and killed on a farm in 2016. Credit Amber Bracken for The New York Times
On Friday night, the family’s fears about the trial in connection with the shooting were realized. They moaned and cried when the jury found Mr. Stanley not guilty of second-degree murder, apparently accepting his defense that it was an accident caused by a rare gun malfunction.
The killing, as I recounted in my article , has reopened longstanding rifts between the Indigenous population and many members of the non-Indigenous community who live and farm in the rolling hills of this part of Saskatchewan.
Photo
Alvin Baptiste, the uncle of Mr. Boushie, a 22-year-old Cree man who was shot and killed in 2016 by a farmer now on trial. Credit Amber Bracken for The New York Times
Despite the stress of the trial, Jade Tootoosis, Mr. Boushie’s cousin; Alvin Baptiste, his uncle; and Verna Denny, his grandmother, graciously agreed to meet me and Amber Bracken, a photographer from Edmonton, at Ms. Denny’s bungalow on the Red Pheasant Cree Nation. Following the tradition for visitors, we arrived with tobacco as a gift.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Baptiste has a deep knowledge of Indigenous spiritualism. Before we began discussing Mr. Boushie’s life and his violent death at the age of 22, Mr. Baptiste held a smudging ceremony , a traditional cleansing using smoke from sage, and said a prayer in Cree (which he later paraphrased in English) that even included Mr. Stanley and his family.
Photo
Jade Tootoosis, Mr. Boushie’s cousin, at her grandmother’s house on the Red Pheasant Cree Nation in Saskatchewan. Credit Amber Bracken for The New York Times
Almost a year and a half after the shooting, it was obvious that none of them, and Ms. Denny in particular, had overcome Mr. Boushie’s death. Ms. Denny told me that her past has left her especially ill equipped to deal with it.
