Tweet
A record number of African nations are taking part in the 2018 Winter Olympics, which officially opened this Friday in PyeongChang, South Korea. We take a look at the athletes putting their best foot forward to take a medal home. Also, Uganda suspends five officials over allegations they defrauded donors by inflating refugee numbers. We speak to the UNHCR for more details. And we head to DR Congo, where a play about domestic violence aims to raise women's awareness about their rights.
We begin in PyeongChang, South Korea, where a record number of African countries, eight in total, are taking part in the 2018 Winter Olympics. The Games officially opened this Friday. Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa, Madagascar Eritrea, Togo and Morocco are all represented. Events include skeleton, bob sleighing and alpine skiing.
Also, Uganda has suspended five officials over allegations they defrauded donors by inflating refugee numbers. The east African nation launched the probe after receiving reports about alleged corruption from the UNHCR and the World Food Programme. As estimated 1.4 million refugees have fled to Uganda from war-torn countries including DR Congo and South Sudan. In 2017, Uganda reportedly saw the biggest increase in new arrivals anywhere in the world.
Staying in DR Congo, a theatre production called "Bongo te, tika", which means "stop doing this" opens its doors in Kinshasa this Friday. The play is aimed at raising awareness about domestic violence. In a country where long-running conflict has exposed millions of women to violence, it’s hoped that projects like this will highlight women's rights.
And finally, we'd like to pay homage to Ghanaian singing sensation, Ebony Reigns, who died in a car crash late on Thursday night. The 20-year-old, born Priscilla Opo-ku-Kwar-teng, reportedly died alongside two others when her car collided with a bus on a busy road in south-west Ghana. She was best known for popular tracks including "Maame Hwe", "Poison" and "Sponsor". Her untimely death comes just before she kicked off her first European tour.
