Two-time U.S. figure skating champion Gracie Gold joining Ice Den staff
Jeff Metcalfe , azcentral sports Published 5:46 p.m. MT Feb. 9, 2018
Two-time U.S. women's figure skating champion  Gracie Gold is joining the coaching staff at the Ice Den in Scottsdale. She was fourth at the 2014 Winter Olympics.
(Photo: Robert Deutsch/USA TODAY Sports)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
Two-time U.S. women's figure skating champion Gracie Gold is joining the coaching staff at the Ice Den in Scottsdale.
Gold, 22, won nationals in 2014 and was fourth at the 2014 Winter Olympics and a team bronze medalist. She took a second U.S. title in 2016 then dropped to sixth at 2017 nationals. Last fall, Gold stepped away from competition and a chance to make the 2018 Winter Olympics to deal with personal issues . 
“It breaks my heart to withdraw from the 2018 U.S. championships,” Gold said in November. "I am still undergoing treatment for depression, anxiety and an eating disorder. I have not had adequate training time in order to perform at the level at which I want to. It pains me to not compete in this Olympic season, but I know it’s for the best. I wish everyone the best of luck and will be cheering you all on. I want to thank everyone for the ongoing love and support. It means the world to me.”
She attended nationals in San Jose to cheer for her skating friends, made some news with her new puppy named Winifred and now is starting a new phase of her life in Arizona.
— Gracie Gold (@GraceEGold) February 9, 2018
“We are honored that Gracie chose the Ice Den to launch her coaching career," said Julie Patterson, Ice Den vice president of skating. "We have no doubt that her ideas and expertise will have an immediate and positive impact on our programs. She is a role model for many of our skaters and we are thrilled that she will play a role in their development.”
Gold joins a staff of 50 coaches that includes Olympians Steven Cousins and Naomi Lang. She is from Los Angeles and trained in Canton, Mich. 
Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.
