Char Adams
February 09, 2018 07:30 AM
Everyone’s favorite hunky Tongan is back — and despite the frigid temperatures ,  Pita Taufatofua  is shirtless once again.
The 34-year-old Polynesian athlete was back in all of his oily glory at the opening ceremony Friday of the 23rd Winter Olympics as the teams entered the massive stadium for the parade of athletes.
Wearing a traditional outfit from his nation, Taufatofua was oiled up and sans top, just as he was during the opener for the 2016 Summer Games, as he proudly hoisted his nation’s flag .
(The display caught the eye of other competitors in the stadium, including American freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy , who posted a brief snippet of Taufatofua to his Instagram with the current temperature displayed over top.)
Pita Taufatofua
Jamie Squire/Getty Images
Taufatofua surprised the world in 2016 when he revealed that he would give taekwondo a rest and pick up cross-country skiing to compete in the Winter Games.
“I wanna show people who aren’t into sport or are having struggles in their life that they can do something completely new, completely out of their comfort zone, and enjoy that journey and get somewhere with it,” he previously told PEOPLE.
“I’ve put on the skis for four minutes, three minutes, just for some of the press release and that sort of thing, but I’ve never really put skis on in my life!” he said.
Pita Taufatofua at the 2018 Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony
Frank Fife/Getty Images
Pita Taufatofua at the 2018 Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony
Ryan Pierse/Getty
Tonga, a Polynesian kingdom made up of around 170 islands, is known for their strong rugby team — but Taufatofua said he knows he can make a name for himself in skiing.
“If I go into training, doesn’t matter what sport, the mentality will always be to train as though I’m chasing down that gold medal,” he explained.
RELATED: The Most Spectacular Photos from Olympic Opening Ceremonies Past
“People say, ‘Man you’re crazy!’ It’s like yeah, I am, but you can be crazy and you can achieve as well. And that’s what I want to show people. I want them to come on the journey, and I want them to be a part of this as well.
“But make no mistake, I’m going to be hunting down that gold medal!”
Pita Taufatofua at the Summer Olympics Opening Ceremony
OLIVIER MORIN/AFP/Getty
Taufatofua first caught the world’s attention at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro when he carried his country’s flag shirtless, completely oiled up and rocking a shell necklace.
The athlete started a GoFundMe page to raise money for ski equipment and travel expenses.
The 2018 Winter Olympics are airing live on NBC. To learn more, visit  teamusa.org .
You May Like
Get your People daily dose
Subscribe to the daily newsletter for the latest celebrity news.
