Don't have an ID?
Print subscribers
If you're a print subscriber, but do not yet have an online account, click here to create one.
Non-subscribers
Click here to see your options for becoming a subscriber.
If you made a voluntary contribution of $25 or more in Nov. 2017-2018, but do not yet have an online account, click here to create one at no additional charge . VIP Digital Access Includes access to all websites
Our print publications are advertiser supported. For those wishing to access our content online, we have implemented a small charge so we may continue to provide our valued readers and community with unique, high quality local content.  Thank you for supporting your local newspaper.
Young archer pursues dreams
Marya Remines practices her form at Empty Quiver Archery.
Shanna Fortier
Tuesday, January 9, 2018 12:52 pm
Shanna Fortier
Marya Remines stood poised one Wednesday morning. Her eyes focused on the target. She cocked her bare bow — which she has lovingly named Lord Vader — and let the arrow fly.
Across the room, the arrow pierces the small red circle at the center of the target.
Remines, an 11-year-old archer, was working on her form at Empty Quiver Archery in Broomfield.
“Sometimes it takes a little bit to get used to,” Remines said while taking a break from her morning practice. “But with better form, eventually you will get better shots.”
Unlike a compound bow, Remines’ bare bow has no sights, and relies solely on the archer’s strength and naked eye — making it much more difficult than other bows.
Remines, a Westminster resident, found a passion for archery when her father, Ryan, took her shooting one Saturday afternoon three years ago. At the time, she was heavily involved in ballet at the Colorado Conservatory of Dance. But her father wanted to broaden her athletic field.
Now, shooting is not only a passion for Remines, but it also acts as a bonding experience with her father, who generally brings her to practice.
“It releases stress and lets me feel calmer,” Remines said of why she likes the sport.
She dreams of one day shooting in the Olympics.
In order to pursue her dream, Remines has also enrolled in Colorado Preparatory Academy. As a sixth-grader this year, Remines says she is taking advantage of flexibility the online instruction offers to spend more time competing and practicing.
The young archer has been part of several teams including the U.S. Junior Olympic Team. Now, Remines shoots with the Rocky Mountain Archery Association and has earned herself two state championship belt buckles.
“I’m just really proud of her,” said Remines’ mom, Mary. “She is a very accomplsiehd young lady for being only 11.”
