trigger warning for this guy is so triggered
Fox News Non-Racist Would Like To Know Who Let All These Gaywads And Blacks Into His Olympics
By
Olympics so gay now. (Actually, that is gay Olympic figure skater Adam Rippon on the right!)
Fox News is having a moment, y’all. No, we’re not talking about how they’ve launched three new ridiculous and easily debunked conspiracy theories this week to obstruct justice for Donald Trump in the Russia probes. The Winter Olympics have just begun in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and Fox News really wants to watch, but UGH, there are all these gross gay and black athletes and how will America even win medals if there are too many blacks and gays?
Show us on the doll where the US Olympic team touched you, Fox News executive VP John Moody:
Unless it’s changed overnight, the motto of the Olympics, since 1894, has been “Faster, Higher, Stronger.” It appears the U.S. Olympic Committee would like to change that to “Darker, Gayer, Different.” If your goal is to win medals, that won’t work.
Can gays even figure skate? Pffffffffffft!
A USOC official was quoted this week expressing pride (what else?) …
PRIDE IS FOR FAGS.
… about taking the most diverse U.S. squad ever to the Winter Olympics.
Like come on, this is the WINTER olympics, OK? Are minorities even aware of snow, which is white?
That was followed by a, frankly, embarrassing laundry list of how many African-Americans, Asians and openly gay athletes are on this year’s U.S. team.
How embarrassing! It’s fine if blacks and Asians and gays want to try to hobble down a bunny slope sometime — not at the ski resort where John Moody likes to go, please — but do they have to flaunt their GAY BLACK ASIATIC LIFESTYLES? (By the way, here is a great article about Winter Olympians doing JUST THAT, because they are awesome.)
No sport that we are aware of awards points – or medals – for skin color or sexual orientation.
Even worse, none of them award bonus points for being heterosexual, white and male!
For the current USOC, a dream team should look more like the general population. So, while uncomfortable, the question probably needs to be asked: were our Olympians selected because they’re the best at what they do, or because they’re the best publicity for our current obsession with having one each from Column A, B and C?
GOOD QUESTION: Do American Olympic hopefuls have to be good at sports, or can they just say “I am the blackest and gayest person in ALL THE LAND”? Is that how one gets on the bobsled team? John Moody would like to know. He’s not gonna Google it for his damn self though, because come on, he’s a Fox News idiot.
Some breakthroughs in American sports were historic, none more so than Jackie Robinson’s in baseball.
John Moody knows about a black athlete who was good, therefore John Moody is not racist.
But Robinson didn’t make the Majors because he was black. His legendary career occurred in an age of outright racial discrimination, because he was better at the game than almost everyone around him.
Unlike US olympians in 2018, who are too busy being gay and black to even play sports.
As my Fox News colleague Ed Henry wrote in his excellent book …
The same Ed Henry currently flogging a conspiracy about how Democratic Senator Mark Warner was caught DOING HIS JOB in the Russia investigation? That guy? Fuck you.
Jeremy Lin, who played basketball at Harvard before joining the New York Knicks, did not become a media hero … due to his Chinese heritage, but because he almost single-handedly turned around the struggling Knicks in 2012 …
John Moody knows about a Chinese athlete.
Back in 1993, when, it seems, America still had a sense of humor, the movie “Cool Runnings” portrayed a Jamaican bobsled team …
John Moody has seen a movie about Jamaicans.
Insisting that sports bow to political correctness by assigning teams quotas for race, religion or sexuality is like saying that professional basketball goals will be worth four points if achieved by a minority in that sport – white guys, for instance – instead of the two or three points awarded to black players, who make up 81 percent of the NBA. Any plans to fix that disparity? Didn’t think so.
WHAT. FUCKING. QUOTAS? What the hell is wrong with this dipshit?
The article Moody cites in the  Washington Post, the one that made him SO MAD because the US Olympic Committee (USOC) spokesperson was proud (LIKE A GAY) there was so much diversity this year, specifically noted that the US team, like most teams in the Winter Olympics, is overwhelmingly white. (There are many reasons for this, and most of them have to do with racism, class, and access to winter sports.) Indeed, out of 243 American athletes this year, according to WaPo, “10 are African American — 4 percent — and another 10 are Asian American.” And there are a couple of openly gay competitors.
That is the marauding influx of homoblackinese athletes that led Fox News fuckwhistle John Moody to write this article.
It’s not that John Moody wants the Olympics to be prejudiced, mind you. BUT:
Complaining that every team isn’t a rainbow of political correctness defeats the purpose of sports, which is competition. At the Olympic level, not everyone is a winner. Not everyone gets a little plastic trophy to take home.
No participation trophies for gaywads and blacks, we got it.
Apropos of nothing, Pita Taufatofua, that hot shirtless guy from Tonga who broke the 2016 Rio Summer Olympics with his body, is back this year, and he’s STILL NEKKID:
Put some earmuffs on your sex nipples, Pita! The Winter Olympics is cooooooold.
And we already told you about openly gay figure skater Adam Rippon, who’s made Olympic news without even landing a triple axel, by rejecting Mike Pence’s sad begging for a little alone time in Pyeongchang:
Put some earmuffs on your sex nipples, Adam Rippon! The Winter Olympics is coooooooold!
Oh man, we bet John Moody is triggered and aroused and angered and titillated by those pictures.
Allegedly.
VERY IMPORTANT UPDATE: Fox News has removed Moody’s column, citing Fox News’s “values.” Haha, OK, you bet.
Anyway, TOO LATE, FUCKERS!
Follow Evan Hurst on Twitter RIGHT HERE.
http://wonkette.com
Evan Hurst is the Senior Editor of Wonkette.  He spends his days deflecting the sad glances of his black lab, Lula, who would please like him to stop typing letters to the internet and throw the squeaky chicken in the backyard instead.  Though the internet does not give him credit, it's probably his fault Aaron Schock is no longer a congressperson, due how Evan would not stay off his tail during the SCANDALS. (Not in a sex way, in a writing way!) Also, he writes songs and plays the piano, at the same time!  Lastly, Evan is a Southern person, and thus is casting polite judgment on you, right now, for reading this. Bless your heart.
Jim Thorpe was really white!
Ray in VT
Is that a Wobblies avatar?
Me_And_My_Arrow
yep
Ray in VT
Nice.  I did my undergraduate thesis on American World War I, Red Scare/Palmer Raids civil rights abuses, and they featured prominently in some of the literature.
“M”
So was Wilma Rudolph.    Whom I met.
Ray in VT
And whom did Jesse Owens knock the hell out of?  The supposed Master Race, right?
FlownΩver
armed_bears
OK, just so I am clear on this:
In an environment driven by demonstrated meritocracy and success, both of which are measured and quantified to milliseconds, we’re opposed to blacks, gays and Asians?
Why exactly? Oh… wait a minute….
Lascauxcaveman
Naw, he’s just saying the those Asian or gay figure skaters are getting high scores because of affirmative action or something.  Because that’s totally how it works in professional sports.
Relativicus
Gays? In sports?!? What’s next, driver’s licenses?!!?
BadKitty904
Say, I know PLENTY of gays that have been in sports.  And vice-versa.
Villago Delenda Est
Those abs have a license to kill.
The Wanderer
Voting?!!?
Relativicus
But just the white ones, yes? I guess I could live with that, so long as they don’t vote all, you know, “gay”.
Villago Delenda Est
Aside from Shep Smith, is there a single decent human being at Faux Noise?
This is a rhetorical question, obviously.
TJ Barke
No. And even Shep has to be somewhat questionable as he continues to stick around.
MynameisBlarney
He’s got a role to play.
schmannity
I know what that’s like.
Zombie Alan Colmes.
miss_grundy
I don’t understand why he is still working there.  Can’t his agent find him another network?
BadKitty904
That’s either an extraordinarily large drag queen or a remarkably BadKitty-sized Rippon in that photo, Evan…
AnnieGetYerFun
I have actually never met a drag queen that didn’t make me feel like a midget and I am 5’8″, so slightly taller than your average American woman.
BadKitty904
You’re three inches taller than me – I generally feel like I fell off their charm-bracelet.
House0fTheBlueLights
If Bradie Tennell (current US Women’s figure skating champ) didn’t get points for being white and skating to the Whitest Music Ever (no not Taylor Swift. It was Cinderella), I will eat my figure skates.
Me_And_My_Arrow
https://twitter.com/DPRK_News/status/962009899101143040
Stulexington
“Mother most certainly does not approve, do you mother?  Mother?  Stop watching the Olympics for a minute and tell the nice people how upset you are about this.”
AnnieGetYerFun
I would like to subscribe to his newsletter.
ArgieBargie
“I’m here to win medals and get laid. And they are all out of medals.”
(stolen from another site)
Stulexington
You know who else was upset about a black athlete on the US Olympic team? (hint: the athlete in question was named Jesse Owens.)
WotsAllThisThen
Every other athlete who had to eat his dust?
ManchuCandidate
is triggering some snowflakes at Fox News.
YEAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!!
IKR — I’m going to be laughing about that all day.
BreakingDeadMen
I’m sorry your team lost the 36 Olympics, jerkwad
“M”
He’s like the grandfather in Get Out.   Still running in the backyard because Jesse Owens whipped his ass.
Scooby
They like the Winter Olympics because even the snow is white.
OutOfOrbit
Honestly, in this day & age,
*speechless*
Winter Olympics… Not just for white straight people anymore!
WotsAllThisThen
“Look, snow is white. It just is.” –Megyn Kelly
tomamitai
Don’t eat the yellow snow…
miss_grundy
You beat me to it.  I was going to say “Not if you piss in it.”
House0fTheBlueLights
10 members of Team USA are Asian American…
…and SEVEN of them are figure skaters. Because of how all the winter sports are just putting all the Asians in all the places because diversity.
Or maybe it’s because it’s one of the few sports in the US where Asians are tolerated? Just spitballing here. (Full disclosure–I’m the mother of a former elite competitor. Don’t. Get. Me. Started.)
HazooToo
Hypothetically, if one WERE interested in getting you started, how would one go about it?
House0fTheBlueLights
Follow me on Twitter during figure skating competitions, and find out.
Skwerl the Taco Hunter
Ha!
“M”
I would be MOST interested in your commentary on the skates *this particular* Olympics.  (Is your T-feed your username here?)
I was just yattering on about anxieties over Nathan Chen having done so well in practice and then falling about in last night’s competition.   :-(
I’d also appreciate *any* suggestions you might have as to how to secure a media credential for the BNParibas Open at Indian Wells. The deadline for credentialing is glaring back like the proverbial Grim Reaper and as much as I know outlets like to do things at the last minute, I’m having a terrible time getting hold of the outlets who’ve said they’re interested in having me shoot for them even as they’ve previously said they liked these things I shot https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/a65957eaddf2fe4166ba06534ad2325f2ce26bd12e37dfeec8f29bdaea579371.jpg https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/6abaabc6a2a60806b7ff0e69c745d7f130e2d088443e88cabc337053928c6dfb.jpg
Rumaikiyya
Please get started!
Skwerl the Taco Hunter
No sport that we are aware of awards points – or medals – for skin color or sexual orientation.
Apparently he’s never been to the Interracial Pegging Olympics…or has he?
AnnieGetYerFun
I have a confuse. Did the Olympic teams allow athletes who did not qualify for the Olympics to be in the Olympics because they are not white? I don’t follow any of the sportings, so you guys might have to fill me in if quotas are now a thing.
ETA: Oh, I see. The Olympic Committee spokesperson used a percentage number in a sentence and that was confusing for the Fox person. That’s understandable.
YoBunnyBunny
QUOTAS!!!1! AFFIRMATIVE ACTION!!!! WHITE GENOCIDAL DISCRIMINATIONS!!!111
bupkus231
The Fox person was told there would be no math.
specialcircumstances
talent and hard work? IDK
alwayspunkindrublic
The racism and ignorance here are astonishing…even for FOX.  Athletics, at the highest levels, are absolutely Darwinian, the ultimate meritocracy.  There is no sentimentality.  No one gets participation trophies, no one gets a contract because they are black, gay, or have cancer.  You only succeed through talent.
AnnieGetYerFun
Yeah, I have to admit that Fox really never surprises me, but my jaw dropped at this one.
alwayspunkindrublic
I read some post from a black man on Facebook recently about how white folks need to make racism REALLY hard on racists in our midst…much more so than politely disagreeing on FB or writing an op-ed, then having lunch with them.  They need to be shunned from decent society.  They need to lose jobs and any trace of social respectability and financial stability.  They need to feel that they should really move to another country because there is no place for them here in ours.
Lascauxcaveman
Hey, that lovable, just-plain-folks Nazi-next-door kinda guy that the NYT gave so much ink to got fired after the article came out; so, green shoots?
AnnieGetYerFun
Hm, I’m not sure. I’m happy not talking to them. But I imagine that losing jobs wouldn’t make anything actually better.
“M”
I’m wondering if you can say that to the faces of the people who lost jobs because the sign on the window said “No Muslims” or “No blacks”.
I’d like to think you didn’t say the same thing about Rob Porter, that he shouldn’t have lost his job.  And not just because he was a walking, talking, domestic-abusing security risk, either.
No less than Cecile Richards said white women have to do better and stop depending on black women to rescue the country from the worst excesses of sexism and racism.   I think she said specifically that included refusing to seat white racist grandma & grandpa at the Thanksgiving table and continuing to enable and excuse their racism and bigotry because “that’s just the way they are” and “it would be uncomfortable” to confront them and set limits and boundaries.
Martin Luther King said in that famous letter the worst enemy of equality for all people wasn’t necessarily the KKK-level racist, but, instead, the white moderate.
I can’t help but wonder if that enabling, excusing, “it’s not that bad”, “oh, but I can’t do that; they’re FAMILY” kind of “I’m just not going to look at their behavior and not see it and then maybe it’ll go away and I won’t have to do anything” kind of denial that Cecile Richards is pointing at exactly 50 years later wasn’t kinda sorta exactly the kind of thing he meant.
AnnieGetYerFun
I’m not saying I disagree with refusing to spend time with racist family members. I’m saying that trying to find ways to make racists lose their livelihood is probably unConstitutional and perhaps counterproductive.
“M”
It’s not unconstitutional and to suggest it is ridiculous – but it’s becoming increasingly clear precisely how you see this issue in exactly the same way when IQ45 says about Rob Porter “he says he’s innocent and YOU HAVE TO BELIEVE THAT” that he obviously believes an accused wife beater – where there are pictures of the visible abuse – is entitled to the presumption of innocence and maximal credibility when his victims are not.
You obviously believe the same thing about racists.  Tell that to Deandre Harris, who was arrested and charged in Charlottesville when there are pictures of white racists who were NOT charged beating him to within an inch of his life.
And you think it would be “unconstitutional” for them to lose their jobs.  Ridiculous, and what’s more, morally reprehensible.  But you rock right on with your “1ST AMENDMENT FREEZE PEACH LA LA LA I CAN’T HEAR YOU” perspective and believe it’s “unconstitutional” for someone to call you out for it.
*smh*
AnnieGetYerFun
Cool story, bro. Clearly you know me very well, and are in no way projecting some kind of image onto me while misunderstanding what I am saying.
(I don’t mean that people shouldn’t lose their jobs if they are openly advocating for racist ideas – the guys from Charlottesville who were fired deserved it and worse. But there are the more commonly racist people, people who just haven’t been reached yet, and I don’t think shouting at them, shaming them, and trying to get them fired is a good idea. I’ve seen how public internet shaming can ruin the lives of good, normal people who made a gaffe, and I think it’s a dangerous game to play)
((( Augustus )))
he has constructed the most straw-iest straw man that ever strawed
Tennessee Rain Genius
“You only succeed through talent” – or a good whack to your opponent knee cap.
Lascauxcaveman
Well, in pro sports (esp football) your next opponent’s injury reports are always picked though hopefully to suss out a competitive edge.
“Oh!  Their left tackle is questionable with a groin strain?  We are gonna blitz that left side SOOO hard…”
“M”
You can be downgraded and EXCLUDED because of ignorance & bigotry & prejudice, though.    Any figure skating fan who knows who Surya Bonaly is — hell, who knows who Tonya Harding is — will tell you that.
“M”
You can find it here, too – right on this board. https://disqus.com/home/discussion/wonkettecom/fox_news_non_racist_would_like_to_know_who_let_all_these_gaywads_and_blacks_into_his_olympics/#comment-3750884830
People like that can’t be stopped till people like this refuse to continue to turn a blind eye to their behavior and suggest it’s “well … not that bad”.
And they shrug.
It’s the same kind of enabling and excusing that goes on in the White House.   Just on a different issue.
wait! what?
“No sport that we are aware of awards points – or medals – for skin color or sexual orientation.”
But it’s okay to take points and medals away for the same criteria?
Uncle Zor
Lord, grand me the confidence of a mediocre white man like John Moody. I mean, how could people who don’t look exactly like him possibly qualify for the Olympics, unless it was #rigged?
schmannity
I was under the impression that you had to compete to be on the US Olympic Team
AnnieGetYerFun
Yes, you do. IN GAYBLACKNESS.
Stulexington
Only in reality, in FoxNewsdistopian present there’s slots set aside for the first gay person or person of colour that walks in the door.
MynameisBlarney
Who told you that load o’ malarkey?
YoBunnyBunny
DEEP STATE CONSPIRACY1!!!!!11!1 THEY THREATENED REAL AMERICCAN HERO AFLETES IWTH PILLOW CASES!!!11!1
Skwerl the Taco Hunter
For the current USOC, a dream team should look more like the general population.
Apparently he has not been around the general population very often.
alwayspunkindrublic
He means “should look more like the Fox newsroom”.
schmannity
Blond and beaver shot short skirts is no way to win women’s hockey.
Lascauxcaveman
But those would be pretty watchable games.
AnnieGetYerFun
I’d expect at least a few Latinos on the team, then.
“M”
There are not enough.   I want Andy Garcia.   And Ben Bratt..   They can READ THINGS.
Jeffery Campbell
Ooooh, Benjamin Bratt.  Tasty.
Marva
Gℴℴgle is giving me 97 US dollars/hr to complete easy jobs staying at home .. Work Some just few hours daily & spend more time together with your relatives … Any person can get this super career!!!this Sunday I purchased a gorgeous Chrysler after I been earnin $7934 past five weeks .no doubt it is my favourite-work however you wo’nt forgive yourself if you don’t go to this.!gx241c:↭↭↭ http://GoogleTagWorkFromHomeJobs/getcash/99$/hourly … ♥r♥♥b♥s♥♥t♥♥♥n♥♥♥e♥♥♥o♥♥b♥♥z♥♥j♥r♥♥♥l♥♥z♥c♥♥m♥c♥♥♥r♥a♥♥k♥l♥o♥♥h♥♥b♥i♥f:::::!qe803w:lhuh
Linda
Google pays me 99 US dollars per hour to complete some internet services on the internet .. Labor Some few hours & live happy greater time with your circle of relatives … Any person can also apply this best career!!!this Thursday I bought a gorgeous Car just after earnin $7919 this last five weeks .it’s certainly the extraordinary approach but you can now not forgive yourself if you don’t look this.!ag812o:⇨⇨⇨ http://GoogleProHomeBusiness/get/$98/per-hr … ♥r♥♥♥o♥♥k♥♥h♥c♥u♥♥k♥v♥♥♥m♥♥♥t♥♥j♥♥e♥♥♥c♥♥♥d♥♥s♥♥♥b♥♥h♥s♥o♥c♥♥♥z♥♥e♥♥♥o♥l♥♥♥w:::::!pf673g:wkyukd
WotsAllThisThen
So he’s saying there should be more black skiers on the team?
“M”
He can’t spell Shani Davis.   So they didn’t look at the skating roster.
Latverian Diplomat
“All the sportsmen I know belong to my country club.”
“M”
They wouldn’t let anyone who works for Faux Noise into a country club.   It’s like the Donald.   The best clubs won’t have him.
(((fka_donnie_d))), SOB
