Health News
GREATEST GROW ON EARTH
Winter Olympics 2018 flame lighting ceremony mocked as ‘exceptionally phallic’ as cauldron is lit by ‘giant robot fire penis’
A rod-shaped steel erection burst from underground, and flames shot up the 30 rings to the lip of the cauldron
By Felix Allen
9th February 2018, 4:34 pm
Updated: 9th February 2018, 4:42 pm
THE Winter Olympics torch lighting ceremony was mocked as viewers said the giant metal rings used to ignite the cauldron looked like a "robot fire penis".
Millions watched as torchbearer Kim Yuna lowered the flame to an "icicle mound" at the climax of today's spectacular opening ceremony in Pyeongchang.
Getty
The apparatus used to light the Olympic cauldron was ridiculed by some viewers
Moments later a rod-shaped steel erection burst from underground, and flames shot up the 30 rings to the lip of the cauldron.
Stunned viewers watching on television around the world had only one thing on their minds.
One Twitter user wrote: "Why did South Korea choose to light the Olympic torch with some sort of flaming robot penis?"
Another said: "Exceptionally phallic lighting of the torch #OpeningCeremony"
Getty Images
South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna was given the honour of lighting the flame
EPA
She lowered the torch to an icicle mound and a flaming steel rod began to rise from underground
EPA
Flames licked up the 30 steel rings to ignite the cauldron at the climax of the opening ceremony
Reuters
Fireworks lit up the sky in Pyeongchang after the torch lighting
Getty
Action movie star Jackie Chan was one of the torchbearers earlier in the day
South Korean figure skater Kim, won gold in Vancouver in 2010 and silver in Sochi four years later, was given the honour to light the Olympic flame in her home country - always a highlight of an opening ceremony.
She performed a short skating routine before receiving the torch at the end of a relay that included action movie hero Jackie Chan earlier in the day.
Her big moment came in front of 35,000 fans in the stadium including a 200-strong North Korean cheerleading squad.
Televison viewers around the world had only one thing on their minds
Spectators sat on heated seats in -3C weather as some of the 2,900 athletes from 92 countries paraded into the arena.
Competitors from North and South Korea entered under a single flag in a show of unity.
MOST READ IN WORLD NEWS
SANDY EMBRACE
Shocked beachgoers discover naked couple passed out in the sand
'STONE HIM, HANG HIM'
Suspected little girl 'serial killer' sentenced to death in Pakistan
FROZE TO DEATH
Girl, 3, found dead in snow after being left outside nursery at playtime
QUAKING
Fears 'Big One' earthquake is on the way after seismic activity in the Ring of Fire
CODE RED ALERT
Jet2 flight from Lanzarote to Birmingham diverted after co-pilot falls ill
TV ASSAULT
TV star attacked by her boyfriend after he discovers she used to be prostitute
 
And in another significant display, the sister of the North's despot Kim Jong-un was in the grandstand alongside the South's leaders and US Vice-President Mike Pence.
Coverage of the Pyeongchang Games is live on the BBC and Eurosport with daily highlights on YouTube .
A united North and South Korea Winter Olympic team enter the stadium for the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.
