{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 11:31 AM EST Feb 9, 2018
These 3 North Carolina athletes will represent Team USA during Winter Olympics in PyeongChang
Share
{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 11:31 AM EST Feb 9, 2018
WXII.com Web Staff
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. —
Three athletes with strong ties to the Tar Heel state will represent Team USA during the Winter Olympics this month in PyeongChang.
The first Winter Olympics ever held in South Korea in PyeongChang begins on Thursday. The opening ceremony is Friday evening.
Advertisement
Here in North Carolina, Heather Bergsma, Kimani Griffin, and Bobby Sanguinetti, of Team USA will be among the 2,800 athletes from more than 85 countries participating in 15 different sports during the games.
Two of the three athletes are from the Triad.
Heather Bergsma, 28, was born and raised in High Point. She is a world record holder and world champion going for her first Olympic medal in PyeongChang.  She will compete in the 1,500m, 1,000m, 500m and mass start races.
Bergsma competed under her maiden name, Heather Richardson, at the Vancouver and Sochi Olympics.
Kimani Griffin, 27, grew up in Winston-Salem. PyeongChang will be Griffin's Olympic debut. He will compete in the men's 500-meter speedskating race.
Griffin put on his first pair of skates at the age of 6, and discovered speed skating after seeing a team at a local rink. He skated on wheels for about 14 or 15 years, then started short and long track skating in 2010.
Bobby Sanguinetti, 29, is an ice hockey player from Wilmington, who make his Olympic debut in Pyeong Chang.
Sanguinetti scored his first NHL goal on February 24, 2013, while playing for the Carolina Hurricanes against the New York Islanders.
His most notable accomplishments have included being named to the 2009, 2010 and 2015 AHL All-Star Games and winning the hardest shot award for PlanetUSA.
On Friday, Gov. Roy Cooper signed a proclamation in recognition of  Bergsma, Griffin and Sanguinetti, competing in the winter games.
"Often,competing in the Olympics is the pinnacle of an athlete’s career, and I amproud of our North Carolina competitors,” Cooper said. “Kristin and I look forward to watching North Carolinians compete in the Olympics this year, and we wish them and the rest of Team USA the best.”
 
