Watch the Winter Olympics in 360 degree virtual reality
Intel True VR will be set up at 30 different events over the course of 16 days.
Author: Brandon Hamilton
Published: 6:13 PM MST February 9, 2018
The same group that brought virtual reality to the Phoenix Open is setting up shop in Pyeongchang for the Winter Olympics.
“Intel True VR allows viewers to get closer to the experience than they ever have before through stereoscopic 180 degree video," said Blake Rowe, Intel Product Implementation Manager.
“Maybe I want to watch halfpipe from under or beside, left or right or maybe I want to see what they are like when they are preparing for that jump and I have that freedom to choose that camera angle,” said Kalpana Berman, Intel Product Manager.
Intel True VR will be set up at 30 different events over the course of 16 days.
“If gives them the ability from their home where they can watch snowboarding, halfpipe, skiing, freestyle, bobsled, figure skating and hockey as well," said Rowe.
“It’s truly something they could not experience even if they were at the games and certainly couldn’t experience it just watching on TV," said David Aufhauser, Managing Director, Intel Sports.
The experience comes from pods that will be set up at various events.
“Each pod has 12 cameras in it with six pairs of lenses that mimic right eye, left eye, right eye, left eye," said Aufhauser.
The result is a 360 degree video experience of your favorite Olympic events. There are a number of ways to watch and the first is the ultimate way.
“All you need to have is a device that’s compatible with a Samsung Gear VR or a Google Daydream headset or a Windows Mixed Reality device," said Rowe.
Simply download the NBC Sports VR App and you are set.
If you don’t have those fancy devices, no problem, you can simply use your smart phone by downloading the same app and move your phone around, left to right, up and down, for the experience.
“Or you can put that into a Google Cardboard and view it without a headset," said Rowe.
When you download the app, you will be able to view a schedule of live VR events or watch previously recorded events.
Intel True VR is revolutionizing the way we watch sports.
Copyright 2017 KPNX
