Here Are All The Black Athletes Competing In This Year's Winter Olympics
Like Issa said, we're rooting for everybody black.
Posted on
Age: 18
Advertisement
2. Jordan Greenway will be the first African-American to play hockey for Team USA at the Winter Games.
Hometown: Canton, New York
Age: 20
3. European Bronze Medalist Vanessa James and her partner Morgan Cipres will be figure skating for France. James made history back in 2010 when she and Yannick Bonheur became the first black pair to ever compete at the Olympics.
Hometown: Manassas, Virginia
Age: 30
4. Ngozi Onwumere and her teammates Akuoma and Seun are the first ever athletes to represent Nigeria at the Winter Olympics. They're also the first African representatives to qualify for and compete in the bobsled competition.
Hometown: Mesquite, Texas
Age: 26
5. Three-time national track and field champion Akuoma Omeoga will be bobsledding for Nigeria after having represented the West African country in the 2012 Summer Olympics.
Hometown: Chicago, Illinois
Age: 25
6. Nigerian bobsledder Suen Adigun also competed for Nigeria in the 2012 Summer Olympics as a hurdler.
Age: 31
Advertisement
7. Four-time medalist Shani Davis will be speedskating for Team USA. In 2006, he became the first black athlete to win a gold medal in an individual sport — the 1000 meter event — at the Winter Games and, in 2010, the first man to successfully defend the 1000 meter gold medal.
Hometown: Chicago, Illinois
Age: 35
8. Alpine skier Shannon-Obgnai Abeda will be the first person to compete for Eritrea in the Winter Olympics.
Hometown: Alberta, Canada
Age: 21
9. Mica Moore will be bobsledding for Great Britain, thanks to their GoFundMe supporters. She and her teammate crowdfunded more than £40,000 to cover their expenses after the country's Bobsleigh and Skeleton Association stopped funding the women's bobsled team — but not the men's — last fall.
Hometown: Newport, Wales
Age: 25
10. Team USA athlete Erin Jackson will be the first African-American woman to compete in Olympic long-track skating. She qualified for this year's Winter Games with only four months of experience speedskating on ice.
Hometown: Ocala, Florida
Age: 25
11. Akwasi Frimpong will be the first Ghanaian athlete to compete in skeleton and the second Winter Olympian to ever represent Ghana.
Age: 31
Advertisement
12. Audra Segree , and her teammates Jazmine and Carrie, are making history as the first Jamaican women's team to compete at the Winter Olympics.
Hometown: Jamaica
Age: 28
13. Jazmine Fenlator-Victorian competed on the US Olympic Bobsled team in the 2014 Winter Olympics, but will be bobsledding for Team Jamaica this year.
Hometown: Wayne, New Jersey
Age: 32
14. Rounding out Team Jamaica is Carrie Russell , who previously won a gold medal in the 4x100 meters relay event at the 2013 World Championships in Athletics.
Hometown: St. Thomas, Jamaica
Age: 27
15. Alpine Skier Sabrina Wanjiku Simader will be the first woman and second person ever to represent Kenya in the Winter Olympics.
Hometown: Austria
Age: 19
16. Former track and field champ and bobsledder Anthony Watson will be the first Jamaican to ever compete in the skeleton event at the Winter Olympics.
Age: 28
Advertisement
17. Team USA bobsledder Hakeem Abdul-Saboor was personally recruited after an Olympic stretch coach saw a video of Hakeem jumping and touching his head to a 10-foot ceiling.
Hometown: Stockbridge, Georgia
Age: 29
19. Aja Evans will be returning to bobsled for Team USA after having won an Olympic bronze medal at the 2014 Sochi Games.
Hometown: Chicago, Illinois
Age: 29
20. Fellow bobsledder Elana Meyers Taylor is coming back to the Winter Games with two Olympic medals, both for Team USA.
Instagram: @elanameyerstaylor
Hometown: Douglasville, Georgia.
Fun Fact: Elana is a two-time Olympic Medalist, having won the silver medal in 2014 and a bronze medal in 2010, both for Team USA.
21. Also competing for Team USA is Lauren Gibbs who left her corporate job in 2013 to successfully try out for the U.S. bobsled team. She later won a bronze medal at the 2016 bobsled world championship.
