Pinterest
PHOTO: Korean Central News Agency/Korea News Service via AP, File
The 2018 Winter Olympics will begin on Friday in Pyeongchang, South Korea and given the state of affairs between North Korea, South Korea, and the United States, all eyes will be on more than just the athletes. Today, state media in North Korea announced that their leader, Kim Jong-un, is sending his younger sister and close advisor, Kim Yo-jong, with his country's delegation to the Opening Ceremony. This is a pretty big deal in that no member of the Kim dynasty has ever even set foot in South Korea and speculation is running rampant about what kind of message he is trying to send.
For much of that, we will just have to wait and see. Vice President Mike Pence is leading the US delegation for the Opening Ceremony while Ivanka Trump will be representing the United States at the Closing Ceremony. Pence has said of the North Koreans, "I have not requested a meeting, but we’ll see what happens.” CNN notes , however, that last year the US Treasury Department included Kim Yo-jong on its list of blacklisted officials. As the vice director of the Workers' Party Propaganda and Agitation Department, she has been targeted by US sanctions."
But who is this mysterious sister called, as The New York Times points out, "Kim Jong-un's Ivanka" by South Korean news media? Let's explore and find how much Kim Yo-jong really has in common with Donald Trump's oldest daughter and senior White House aide.
Growing Up Trump v. Growing Up Kim
Unlike the Trump family, who have basically lived their entire lives in front of the cameras, the Kim dynasty is notoriously secretive. We know all about Ivanka's upbringing at prep schools in New York City then college at Georgetown and the University of Pennsylvania. Then there are the photo shoots with her father, her own fledgling modeling career, and an appearances on everything from the Teen USA pageant to the 2003 documentary, Born Rich.
Finding details on Kim Yo-jong, on the other hand is tough, even using one's best internet snooping skills. According to North Korea Leadership Watch , she was born in September of 1987 and shares the same mother of Kim Jong-un. Much like Ivanka, her father had children with a number of different women and she's got her fair share of half-siblings. She was reportedly educated in Switzerland during her elementary school years under the name “Kim Yo’ng-sun.”  It's not clear where she completed her secondary education but it is believed she completed some coursework at a western European university. Her whereabouts were basically unknown until 2007 when she was named a junior cadre in the central party under her father.
The Family Dynasty
The Trumps have real estate via the Trump Organization . The Kims have an all-encompassing dictatorship of North Korea. And both daughters started their careers working under their fathers, a position unlikely for either if they weren't part of their family's inner circle. While Ivanka eventually branched out into fashion retail, we're not sure anything outside the lines would ever be allowed for Kim Yo-jong, not that we'd necessarily know if she even tried. When her father died in 2011, Kim Jong-un stepped into the supreme leader role and his sister's profile continued to rise behind the scenes.
The Politics of It All
Her father aside, Ivanka is perhaps the most public face of the Trump Administration. After initially playing coy about an official role in the administration, she soon accepted a role as senior advisor (along with her husband Jared Kushner) and moved her family to Washington D.C. She is jokingly referred to as the real First Lady and claims women in the workforce and paid family leave as two of her key issues. Ethical questions surround the entire Trump family at every turn—from the time Ivanka's company used the First Family-elects appearance on "60 Minutes" to hawk one of her bracelets to the still unclear degree to which she (and her father) have detangled themselves financially from the family business.
Ethics aren't really an issue for Kim Yo-jong, seeing as her brother is the supreme ruler of the nation. But her role in his regime has become more prominent, inasmuch as that is a thing in the notoriously secret government. According to the Times , Kim Yo-jong is the pre-eminent female face of the Kim family. In 2014, she was made deputy director of the Propaganda and Agitation Department of the Workers' Party (though by title alone, this sounds more like Don Jr's unofficial role.) She was promoted as an selected as an alternate member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Worker's Party at the Second Plenum of the party's 7th Central Committee in 2017. (The Politburo is the North Korean regime's top decision-making body, led by Kim Jong Un.)
Michael Madden, who runs the blog North Korean Leadership Watch, told CNN that Kim Yo-jong has taken on more responsibility, dealing with policy, receiving intelligence briefings and acting "almost like a White House chief of staff would." Some even believe she briefly took charge of the country when her brother was reportedly ill in late 2014. Now, this is all just sounding eerily familiar. Remember when Ivanka filled in for her father at the G20 and everyone lost their minds?
The Family's Favorite
From all public evidence, it seems pretty clear that Ivanka is the favorite child in the Trump family. She is indeed the only one with an official position in the administration and her father has always tended to speak (often with a huge ick factor) about her more than any of his other children. Lest we all forget the infamous, "If Ivanka weren't my daughter, perhaps I'd be dating her" moment . Like Kim Yo-jong, she will be officially representing her country at the Winter Olympics and she is known as a valued advisor.
In North Korea, the state news media often shows top-ranking officials listening reverentially when Kim Yo-jong speaks. "She's probably one of the most influential people on Kim Jong Un himself, precisely because he has very few people he can trust," Balbina Hwang, visiting professor at Georgetown University and founder of the National Committee on North Korea told CNN. North Korean analyst Ken Gause agrees , "In time, she will become the last line of defense for him, telling him about the loyalty of his most trusted advisers." It is believed Kim Yo Jong was active in helping establish Kim Jong-un’s hereditary succession campaign which makes a tiny voice inside my head scream, "OMG IS THIS WHAT IVANKA AND JARED ACTUALLY DO ALL DAY?"
Even both of their husbands are (allegedly) in on the action. According to ROK media , citing intelligence sources in China, Kim Yo Jong is currently married to the younger son of KWP Secretary Choe Ryong Hae.  Her rumored husband works in the KWP Finance and Accounting Department and is said to have ties to Office #39. Jared Kushner, of course, also serves as an advisor to President Trump and has been tasked with myriad duties including brokering peace in the Middle East and tackling the opioid crisis.
So it would seem that Ivanka Trump and Kim Yo-jong have more in common than just nepotism and being related to volatile world leaders. And hopefully we'll learn even more as Kim Yo-jong steps out of the shadows at the Olympics this week.
Keywords:
