Go Mobile
We make it easy
DiveIn is a platform that connects passionate people to each other and to local nonprofits, community organizations, and worthy causes. We started in the Bay Area, and are now actively launching in major metropolitan areas Nationwide.
Conversation
Black History is America’s History
Black History is America’s History By: Shannon McNair In case you didn’t know, it’s your American duty to celebrate ‘Black History Month’ (seriously, it’s a law). Thanks to Carter G. Woodson, in 1926, his suggestion that Americans celebrate the birthdays of Frederick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln became a reality. Both men, one black and one white, […]
Her STEM Story: GIRL STEM STARS
Her STEM Story: GIRL STEM STARS In this week’s DiveIn presents “Black History Month” special, Prasha Sarwate speaks to “GIRL STEM STARS” CEO & Founder Kiwoba Allaire, and Camille Eddie an engineering student & board member. A non-profit that’s providing powerful trips, community support & experiences in the field of the STEM to girls of color from […]
The Story Behind Black History Month
By Sara Grimes   I am sure that you have heard by now that it’s Black History Month. It’s a month where we reflect on the legacy of great Black historical figures. Yet the history of the founder of Black History Month remains shrouded in mystery. Who was he? His name is Carter Godwin Woodson, […]
Her STEM Story: The SHARK Scientist
Her STEM Story: The SHARK Scientist.   In this week’s DiveIn sponsored episode, Her STEM Story‘s host, Prasha Sarwate talks to the amazing Melissa Cristina Márquez. She is a Latina marine biologist and conservationist in Sydney, Australia. Melissa is actively engaged in research, exploration, communication, and application of scientific knowledge related to the conservation of marine ecosystems. She studies sharks and […]
A Conversation with April Reign about Activism and Social Media
A Conversation with April Reign about Activism and Social Media By Andreas Carlos Freund If you’re a social media user or an activist, you’ll definitely want to get familiar with April Reign, a writer, former lawyer, and the activist who started the #OscarsSoWhite movement. April and I met at the Inaugural Recode 100 event where […]
The New Age of Community and Giving
The New Age of Community and Giving By Priya Kothari A little while back, I hosted a party at home for a few friends. Some knew each other, others didn’t. But that evening, they came together to form a community with a shared cause. In that intimate setting of my front room, I had invited […]
