Olympics 2018
Tonga’s Shirtless, Oiled-Up Flag Bearer Made It to the Winter Olympics
The breakout star of the Rio opening ceremony said he wasn’t going to go shirtless in sub-freezing Pyeongchang! And then he did!
by
Tonga flag bearer Pita Taufatofua leads his team during the Opening Ceremony of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games.
By Quinn Rooney/Getty Images.
Tongan tae kwon do athlete, Pita Taufatofua, arrived at the Rio Olympics in 2016 wearing a ta’ovala (a traditional mat worn by men and women for formal occasions). During the Parade of Nations in that year’s opening ceremony, his combination of abs and oil really stood out, especially against, say, polo shirts or sport jackets or the rest of the overwhelmingly Western wear. The crowd, whether in person or watching on television, lost its mind, and yelled into the abyss about this person and his greased torso. Hoda Kotb took over oiling duties . He lost his match, unfortunately, but no matter. A star was born.
Then the Earth revolved around the sun. Plants sprouted; animals died; a lot of good television debuted on Netflix; Taufatofua kept training, but for a different sport entirely. And now, here, on the other side of it all, Taufatofua is back in time for Pyeongchang 2018, now a cross-country skier for his home, a South Pacific island chain that has likely never seen snow before.
With the run-up to these games, which launched officially with the opening ceremony on Friday, a collective gasp was heard round the world, as interested parties all said in unison: “Hey, buddy. Congratulations on qualifying for cross-country skiing, especially, because—wow—skiing? In Tonga? Seems like a real Cool Runnings story line. Very interesting. Very fun. But, quick question—don’t feel like you need to answer right away—you gonna show up topless again?” The world, too, held its breath.
But Taufatofua demurred. “I want to still be alive for my race. It’s going to be freezing, so I will be keeping nice and warm,” he said, per a Pyeongchang 2018 media release . But, dear reader, it was a lie. It was a ruse. Whether it was because he wanted to preserve the surprise, or he felt the below-freezing temperature once he arrived in South Korea and decided that it wasn’t so bad. He could hack it. He had packed his ta’ovala just in case, and it’d be a shame to wear, like, some coat like everyone else. Anyway here he is:
https://twitter.com/NBCOlympics/status/961947152812531712
Catch him in the snow, likely in appropriate winter gear, for cross-country events beginning Sunday, February 11. He does not expect to win. “I just scraped by to qualify,” he told People. (He failed six times to qualify , and only made it in during his last chance in Iceland a few weeks ago.) “So I’m not sure if I’ll be fighting to come in last or second to last or third to last, but I’ll be fighting until the end.” But remember: he’s led folks astray before.
Get Vanity Fair’s Cocktail Hour
Our essential brief on culture, the news, and more. And it's on the house.
E-mail Address
