Opt out or contact us anytime
As for me, I will be bringing you all the news from the shows. If you have any fashion-week-related questions, please send them in. In the meantime, for a quick overview of the new names showing, the old names going and what else to watch for (#MeToo), check out our preview .
Or spend some time considering how the street became the new runway; whether or not fashion is finally going to address the issue of work/life balance — and, in the interests of the international aspect of both the Olympics and Fashion month, why young women in Iran are abandoning the head scarf .
Have a good weekend.
Your Style Questions, Answered
Every week on Open Thread, Vanessa will answer a reader’s fashion-related question, which you can send to her anytime via email or Twitter . Questions are edited and condensed.
Q: In two weeks I’ll be leaving for half a year for a study abroad in Poland. I’m super excited, but what in the world am I going to pack? I’m going in winter but staying until the middle of summer. At home I’m used to my huge Ikea wardrobe, which houses all of my wonderful clothes and shoes and bags, but how do I know what I’m going to need for my various activities without over-packing? — Lina, Vienna
A: Speaking of parkas, these Olympics may be very useful to you. On a more immediate note, however, I asked our Poland correspondent, Marc Santora, for some actual tips from the front line. Here’s what he said:
“Forget layers. A proper winter coat is much better and easier to leave at a coat check. Boots are essential, especially indoor/outdoor boots that are water resistant but not arctic boots. All that said, the malls here have most essentials, so no need to stress. And come spring I am told it is all sundresses and shorts. When the sun arrives they soak up every minute.”
For the boots I’d check out Sorel if you don’t have some already; throw in a few pairs of pants and some sweaters; make sure your coat is water-resistant (not wool); and then take a few sundresses (which you can also wear over tights and under sweaters in winter), shorts and shirts, sneakers and ballet flats. Plus a transitional jacket, like a pea coat or lightweight trench, and a couple of scarves. Then add a tote bag or backpack, shoulder bag and pochette that can double as an evening clutch, and you should be in good shape.
Advertisement
A final tip: Before you pack, stand in front of your closet and think very carefully about what you actually wear, as opposed to what you have. It can be both enlightening and liberating. — VANESSA FRIEDMAN
Like what you see here? Submit any feedback to openthread@nytimes.com .
