Ralph Lauren's Olympics Uniforms Remind Us that Patriotism Isn't a Four-Letter Word
By
Photo Illustration/Courtesy of Polo Ralph Lauren
The fringed gloves are funny, but they're also classic Ralph. Here's why they matter.
Late last month, Polo revealed its athlete outfits for the 2018 Winter Olympics, the gear our Olympians will wear for the Opening and Closing Ceremonies, and to any and all Olympic activities in between. The uniforms are what you might expect: red, white and blue, Western influence, technical elements, a Polo Bear. Same old, right?
Not quite. The release was mostly ignored by the fashion world, and sports people thought it was silly : the kind of fringed leisurewear that people wear in catalogs and commercials for ski resorts, and nowhere else. But are we selling Ralph Lauren short?
That's not something that happens often to the brand that’s shorthand for an entire style, and a catalog of greatest hits—Snow Beach, Western wear, repp ties—longer than many fashion houses. The best Lauren collections can be self-referencing, futuristic, or full of well-sourced vintage influences. But even the very best aren’t usually all three. Oddly enough, the 2018 Olympic collection—including a battery-powered parka that keeps athletes warm for 11 hours (on a full charge), tan suede gloves with fringes, a USA baseball hat, boots similar to 1970s-era hikers, a waxed cord bracelet, a hooded sleeveless poncho, and, inexplicably, jeans with United States, 2018 on the calf—is all of that at the same time. And at a time when American action on the world stage makes patriotism feel fraught, the collection reminds us that national pride can be fun, lively, and more than a little weird—the same way the Olympics are.
An Olympics collection ostensibly promotes the most mainstream of athletic events in a mainstream way, but the 2018 line is way out there. There’s been a classic piece or two in every winter collection. 2010 featured a must-have jacket with the silhouette of a Massimo Osti-era Stone Island parka. 2014 was anchored by a cable-knit cardigan, somewhat infamous, very loud and patchwork, ridiculed at the time. But it worked then and, with the benefits of hindsight and Instagram, looks better today. That sweater is the definitive Ralph Lauren Olympics piece: loud, obscene, and a knowing tribute to a different era of sport. Only our favorite tie-maker from the Bronx could make athletes wear wool in a stadium after not doing so for 80 years. It makes sense, too. Polo is more itself in winter. The big, bulky jackets and holiday sweaters evoke the brand’s distinct take on high-class Americana living better than thin T-shirts, Madras and shorts.
2018 sends us further down the rabbit-hole, adding more sweaters, more non-performance fabrics, more denim, more wool, more suede gloves. Just as LeBron James is underpaid, Polo doesn't get enough credit in the Instagram era for its vintage bonafides. (Basically, every important piece of vintage American clothing has been represented before by Ralph Lauren Country or RRL.) The line between athletic gear and fashion blurs by the month . I count a handful of instant classics. The cotton bandanna (their old-world spelling) looks legitimately old, something out of Lee Jeans’ designs from the 1950s. The Ceremony Sweater, navy with a flag on the front, is half 1998 Gap—a look that’s definitely coming back, probably on Drake, very soon—and half the shirt Jim Thorpe wore in that famous photo from the 1912 Olympics . (The crests are identical.)
The rest of the 2018 collection gets extra-modern. The heated jacket is loud enough above the chest to stand out, and very 1970s, simply and puffy, from the neck down. Like a great Polo piece, it straddles eras, but isn’t contrived. The ripstop hooded poncho is a piece of straight-up daring athletic wear: no sleeves, giant silhouette, resembling a post-marathon thermal blanket in 1992 Olympic ski colors . It works because it leans into its loudness: it's a performance item at its most performative. But all of that pales in comparison to the collection’s biggest hit. The suede fringed gloves, already easy to make fun of , are another instant classic. But they're more than that, too: not just an important piece, they’re an important Ralph Lauren piece, another category entirely.
There’s something subversive to the gloves, making athletes wear suede fringe and honoring Native American beadwork at the same time. Lauren’s collections have celebrated classic American themes more than any other designer’s, and here he has a collection that’s a delivery vehicle for Native American design. Think about it: at the Olympics, the loudest representation of the loudest country in the world will be Native American in design. Maybe Lauren is thumbing his nose at the narrower definition of America at first blush associated with his clothing; it could be he’s celebrating a broader definition; it could be he’s making a political statement in some small way. In any event, it’s well thought out, and advances a new tradition of the games, too: Thorpe, the greatest American Olympian, a member of the Sac & Fox tribe, is now up there with Marc Spitz and Jesse Owens. This, Lauren is reminding us, is American Olympic history.
It's hard for anything to shine against the pomp and circumstance of the Winter Games. The clothes are literally dressing for the Olympics. The gloves and jackets, loud as they might be, are uniforms, for athletes representing one country, very loudly, among the rest. The decision to root for Team USA, and wear flags head to toe, in the age of America First is enough to give pause. Does the flag represent the country, or its president? It’s not a question that can be answered in 18 days.
But as a collection? This is a no-brainer. Like the best Ralph Lauren assemblages, this one is a Trojan horse for good vintage and better ideas, a sneaky way to get our fashion vegetables. The clothes say one thing: loud is good, technology is good, the West is good. It’s defensible to be patriotic a couple weeks a year, every four years. But at a uniquely charged Olympics, these clothes do something else, too: they paint a fuller picture of what an American athlete is, and can be.
