Korean intruder ejected from Olympic opening ceremony
Athletes from both Koreas entered the arena under a flag depicting a unified Korea as American Vice-President Mike Pence and Kim’s sister, Kim Yo-jong, watched on from a VIP box.
“Is my sister getting the same treatment?,” the Kim lookalike said as he was escorted out of the stadium.
Five impersonators of political leaders, from Trump to Mao, tell all
While the appearance of the two faux politicians was in good jest, the opening ceremony was troubled by another, more worrying intruder who attempted to accost two performers.
Despite clearly getting along famously, the two men were tossed out – likely to avoid upsetting the real North Korean dignitaries who were present. Photo: Kyodo
Just after the two Koreas had marched into the stadium behind the blue-and-white unification flag, a man made a daring entrance, sliding down a long icy chute to reach the performers before being wrestled out by security officials.
Koreas unite to kickstart Pyeongchang Winter Games
He was tackled by Olympic security and thrown out. Police said no arrests were made, while South Korea organisers confirmed the incident but were unable to give further details.
The invasion came just after the two Koreas had marched into the stadium behind the blue-and-white unification flag, possibly indicating the stunt was politically motivated.
US Vice-President Mike Pence, North Korea's nominal head of state Kim Yong-nam (left), and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's younger sister Kim Yo Jong (right) attend the Winter Olympics opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Friday. Photo: Yonhap via Reuters
As the two Koreas marched together in sub-zero temperatures, South Korea’s president shared a historic handshake with Kim Jong-un’s sister as the Games marked a thaw in the often frosty relations on the peninsula.
However, just a block from the Olympic a few dozen protesters raged against the presence of North Korean athletes and officials at the Games, tearing up a North Korean flag as emotions ran high.
More on this Story
