Activate your digital access.
Six places to watch the Winter Olympics in Greater Lafayette
Emma Ea Ambrose , Journal & Courier Published 3:48 p.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018 | Updated 4:35 p.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018
A speed skating figure is displayed in front of the Alpensia Ski Jumping Center ahead of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Friday, Feb. 9, 2018. (AP Photo/Michael Probst)
(Photo: Michael Probst, AP)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Ski jumping, ski shooting (more popularly known as biathlon) and speed skating are just some of the more daring sports that come to our television screens every four years with the advent of the Winter Olympics. 
This year the beloved tournament is being held in PyeongChang, South Korea, which is 14 hours ahead of Indiana time. 
Thanks to NBC and other streaming services, however, Hoosiers don't have to miss out on the action. And thanks to Greater Lafayette's bar scene you can still go out for your weekly pint or weekend festivities without missing any of the fun and frosty Olympic action. 
These bars will have Winter Olympics coverage over the next two weeks, and some will even have special promotions: 
Bobby T's Pub, 605 Main St., Lafayette: Relax with a lemon shakeup, or a number of other innovative shakeups, at this downtown joint while you watch the athletes do all the hard work. You could even indulge in one of the bar's fried Oreos because, hey, you're not an Olympic athlete! 
Buffalo Wild Wings, 360 Brown St., West Lafayette & 2715 Creasy Ln., Lafayette: In addition to around-the-clock coverage the chain also will be "blinging" their wings with a special gold dry rub in honor of the Olympic season. 
Chumley's, 122 3rd St., Lafayette: What better way to enjoy the frosty landscape of snowy South Korea than with a frosty brew from one of Lafayette's most extensive beer menus. 
DT Kirby's, 644 Main St., Lafayette: The downtown institution is billing itself as Olympic HQ, and with over two dozens of televisions, customers won't miss a second of the action. Appetizers are half off from 8 a.m. to 3 a.m. through the Olympics and if you ask for all-American fries with your sandwich (instead of French) the fries are free. Otherwise it's a $10 fine, Don Kirby said. 
Stacked Pickle,  516 Northwestern Ave., West Lafayette: If you're near campus the Stacked Pickle has you covered for any Olympic watching needs. 
 Reach Journal & Courier reporter Emma Ea Ambrose at eambrose@gannett.com or 765-431-1192. 
Read or Share this story: http://on.jconline.com/2nVF7rW
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.
