By joining, or logging in via Facebook, you accept Change.org’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
Boycott PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea, A Dog Eating Nation!
0 have signed. Let’s get to 500,000!
KOREANDOGS.ORG Activists started this petition to Office of the president, the Republic of Korea President of South Korea and 2 others
Please visit "Boycott PyeongChang 2018 Action Center" for more actions you can take: http://koreandogs.org/pc2018/
To the President of the International Olympic Committee, Mr. Thomas Bach, and the President of the South Korean PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics, Mr. Lee Hee-Beom,
We ask you to please watch this video:  http://youtu.be/3uR8R8Mu70Q
South Korea is the world’s 14th largest economy, yet an estimated 2.5 million dogs and thousands of cats are slaughtered each year in that country, and eaten as “health food”.  Forced to endure deprivation and unimaginable torment, from the moment they are born until the day they are slaughtered, dogs are imprisoned in cramped, rusty, raised cages all their lives, with no protection from extreme elements, no access to water, no exercise, or medical care.  Their eardrums are often burst to deter barking. Finally, in broad daylight, often in front of other live dogs, they are electrocuted, hanged, beaten or burnt to death. 
It is hard to believe that a nation such as South Korea, which is one of the major economic powers and boasts one of the highest education levels in the world, is still continuing to commit this type of barbaric brutality in this day and age.  For the millions of dogs and cats that are being slaughtered each year in South Korea’s markets, slaughterhouses, restaurants, dog farms and backyards, it is a tragic reality and a nightmare from which they can’t escape; but it is unacceptable and shameful: South Korea is happy to take the benefits of an advanced society, but not the full responsibility.
This is a profit-driven, tax free, unregulated industry that aggressively promotes the myth that eating dog meat (especially the dog’s penis) enhances male virility and provides men with energy.  South Koreans genuinely believe that the more the dog is made to suffer, the more it will enrich the quality of the meat and increase the health benefits to the consumer.  Many dogs are sadistically made to experience extreme fear and suffering prior to death.  Cats are frequently boiled alive to make tonics believed to treat rheumatism.  The demand is so high in South Korea that 20% of the dog meat is now imported from China.
If South Korea wants to be respected as a nation of conscience, then South Koreans need to strengthen their animal protection laws and permanently ban dog and cat meat consumption.  This has continued for far too long, and it is now time for the South Korean Government to take moral leadership for its citizens and take a stand against this appalling practice.  Not only would this save the South Korean animals from unimaginable suffering, but it will be in South Korea’s economic interest because people across the world will keep condemning South Korea’s cruelty.
Mahatma Gandhi said, “The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.”  It is time, therefore, for South Korea to start taking animal welfare seriously and prove that South Korea really does have a compassionate and ethical society.  This means it is time for the South Korean Government to start better educating the public about the importance of spaying and neutering, about not abandoning pets, and about treating animals in a humane and decent manner.  And, the first step must be to finally end this horrendous cruelty of dog and cat meat consumption.
If South Korea does not take the above action immediately, I will boycott the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics, and all South Korean businesses and tourism.  The favor of your reply is requested.
We thank you, in anticipation, for taking swift action!
------------------------------------
I also urge you to write to the Olympic Committee that you will boycott PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics.
International Olympic Committee
