Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.
Thousands of drones used for light show during Olympics opening ceremony
By JULIA JACOBO
Feb 9, 2018, 11:00 PM ET
0 Shares
WATCH Thousands of drones used for light show during Olympics opening ceremony
0 Shares
Thousands of drones were used to put on a pre-recorded light show during the opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Friday morning for the first time, according to Intel, which is overseeing the event.
Interested in Olympics?
Add Olympics as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Olympics news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest
Zeno Group
Thousands of drones were used to put on a pre-recorded light show during the opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Feb.9, 2018.
A total of 1,218 drones outfitted with LED lights were used to paint "colorful illustration in the sky," setting a new Guinness World Record on the number of drones flown at the same time, according to an Intel spokeswoman. Intel holds the current record after 500 drones were flown simultaneously for a light show in Krailling, Germany, on Oct. 7., the spokeswoman said.
The drones are controlled through an automated software program, though they do have one pilot for backup, Intel said.
In addition to the opening ceremony, the drones will be used throughout the games, creating light-filled formations every night from Feb. 10 to Feb. 24 during the nightly victory ceremonies.
"It's something that we wanted to integrate that experience into the Olympics on a daily occasion, because not everyone is going to be at the opening ceremony, and we want to give everyone in Korea a chance to see these shows," said Natalie Cheung, the general manager for Intel's drone light shows.
Dave Lehl/Zeno Group
Thousands of drones were used to put on a pre-recorded light show during the opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Feb.9, 2018.
Marco Caduff / EyeEm via Getty Images
Thousands of drones were used to put on a pre-recorded light show during the opening ceremony for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Feb.9, 2018.
An athlete on a snowboard, a bird of prey in flight, and, of course, the five interlaced Olympic rings are among the aerial illustrations that viewers can anticipate seeing during the shows.
