Carrie Underwood Dreamed of Being a Figure Skater While Watching Winter Olympics
Kelly Brickey  • February 9, 2018 - 11:19 am
Share < br />this article:
Carrie Underwood; Photo by Gary Miller/Getty Images
Carrie Underwood grew up on the plains of Oklahoma away from snowy mountains or icy ponds, but she still invested herself in the Winter Olympics every four years.
Although she opted to go toward the musical route with her career, Underwood still practiced ice dancing moves all across her living room whenever the Games came on. The singer may have never hit the rink, but she dreamed of performing in the future enough to practice all the choreography she witnessed on television to land it in the big time in her own right.
“It is really hard to pick one Olympic sport that I love to watch and is my favorite because there’s always something going on, and it’s always just kind of nice to tune in and see how we’re doing as a country. Growing up, I always loved figure skating. I always thought the girls were so beautiful and graceful and strong and athletic. I mean, I remember dancing around our living room pretending I was an ice skater, even though I’d never been on the ice before. That’s always one that’s fun to watch, and I am always in awe just how high everyone jumps and twists and spins. It’s incredible,” Underwood admitted.
Nowadays, Underwood still enjoys a bit of figure skating here and there, but she developed a passion for the hockey matches during the Olympics due to her husband’s involvement in the sport. He even decided to come out of retirement to land back on the Nashville Predators roster for one final hurrah, making the singer even that much more interested in the sport during the 2018 Games.
“I think an Olympic sport I found myself watching, one I never really watched growing up is hockey. I didn’t know that much about hockey growing up in Oklahoma and now, obviously, that I’m married to a hockey player, he’s tuning in. He’s checking things out and obviously I’m into hockey these days. So, it’s something that is fun to watch and I’m glad it’s something I’ve gotten into and I’m glad that I get to watch even more hockey during the Olympics.”
While Underwood won’t be competing in any of the Olympics sports, she will still make an appearance in her own right by having her new song, “The Champion,” as one of the anthems for the Games held in PyeongChang, South Korea.
The Opening Ceremony to the Winter Olympics 2018 airs Friday, February 9, at 8 p.m. EST on NBC, with various sports broadcasted from the same network until February 25.
