Editorial: Too many have died between Parkland and Littleton
DAEGWALLYEONG-MYEON, South Korea — Two weeks ago, when Ralph Lauren unveiled its U.S. Olympic athletes uniform for the PyeongChang Games’ opening ceremony, Bradford Peterson’s phone blew up with ecstatic messages from friends.
“Even today I’m still getting congratulations,” said the Denver-based co-founder and creator of the distinctive Astis brand of mittens and gloves.  The company’s high-cuffed, handmade leather ski gloves combine old-school American Indian and Western influences with high-tech wicking fabrics.
Thing is, the gloves Ralph Lauren designed for American Olympians at the opening ceremony — described by the iconic clothier as “brown suede explorer gloves with fringe and hand-beading” — may look a lot like Astis, but they are not Astis. They likely were inspired by Astis, though.
Peterson said Ralph Lauren’s people spent a couple years talking with him and his team about the design and domestic manufacturing of the distinctive mitts.
It was 2016 when Peterson received a call from a senior vice president of luxury lifestyle fashion, design and media. (He read that off an e-business card when retelling the story.) The executive loved Astis. They talked about partnering and working together to accessorize the Olympian parade uniforms. Peterson and his childhood friend and business partner, Charlie Brown, were excited. They sent the executive potential pictures of patriotic mitts.
“We thought it was great, that’s our dream and it would be the most amazing thing,” he said. “And then they went silent.”
A few months later, Peterson fielded another call from someone at Ralph Lauren who this time didn’t share their title. He asked about manufacturing locations and material sourcing. Peterson pushed the caller about the curiosity.
“Because we are thinking about partnering with you,” Peterson recalled the caller saying, which he remembers because he sent an email to his business partners saying Ralph Lauren was again possibly pondering a partnership.
Then last month, the week that Outdoor Retailer arrived in Denver — a rally of the outdoor industry’s retailers and manufacturers — Ralph Lauren announced its made-in-America opening ceremony athlete kits. The water-shedding, red-white-and-blue parka has a battery-powered heating system. The jeans have “moto-inspired seaming.” The uniform includes red-laced waffle-stomper boots and those fringed, beaded “explorer gloves.”
A spokeswoman for Polo Ralph Lauren declined to comment for the record, but emailed a statement noting the company explores relationships with many partners while producing garments.
“The American West has been a well-established source of inspiration for Ralph Lauren, and the design team had always conceived of creating a Western-inspired glove for Team USA’s opening ceremony uniform,” reads the statement. “The gloves were inspired by vintage ranch gloves and rugged Western style, and we explored production with a number of manufacturing partners to execute the design vision.”
Related Articles
