What you need to know about opening ceremony for 2018 Winter Olympics
Roxanna Scott  |  USA TODAY Sports
Will the cold be an issue?
Friday started off as a fairly mild day compared to the past few weeks. With temperatures in the 30s during the day, the forecast called for the 20s at the time of the opening ceremony. Organizers have been so worried about the frigid temperatures and wind that they announced they were providing hand warmers, a heated seat cushion and blanket to spectators and members of the media.
A rehearsal for the opening ceremony Feb. 3  was held with minus-seven wind chills. And in November, according to the Korean Herald, seven people were treated for hypothermia after a concert in the stadium.
The U.S. team will be outfitted in Ralph Lauren, with heaters built into their jackets . 
What can we expect from North and South Korea?
The two countries will march together led by flag bearer Won Yun-jong, a bobsledder from South Korea, according to Yonhap News. While this unified gesture will be a grand photo opportunity for media around the world, it's not a first for these two neighbors.
It’s the 10th time they've marched together in an international sporting event, according to Yonhap.
There will be a historical first for North Korean leadership. Kim Jong Un's younger sister is headed to the Olympics, the first time a member of the family has visited South Korea, according to Yonhap. 
How many countries will participate?
The IOC lists 91 National Olympic Committees ranging from Andorra to Uzbekistan. Erin Hamlin, a bronze medalist in luge, was selected as the U.S. flag bearer, which created some controversy surrounding Shani Davis.
Here are some other cool stories about flag bearers of other nations:
Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir, Canada: The 2014 gold medalists in ice dancing are the first duo to carry the flag for Canada. The two are the favorites for gold at these Games and apparently they've toned down their free skate program that was a little risqué, according to the Toronto Star.
Pita Taufatofua, Tonga: If you watched the Rio opening ceremony, you saw Taufatofua in all his oiled up glory. Now he's a cross country skier competing in his first Winter Games.
Ngozi Onwumere, Nigeria: She's part of the team that will represent Nigeria in women's bobsled for the first time. Onwumere went to high school in Mesquite, Texas, then ran track and field at the University of Houston, where she was an all-American.
How can I watch it live?
NBC Universal will live stream the ceremony for the first time. Coverage begins Friday at 6 a.m. ET on NBCOlympics.com and the NBC Sports app. Follow along at usatoday.com for our live coverage throughout the ceremony.
Will the Russian team march in opening ceremony after doping scandal?
Officially the IOC has banned Russia from the 2018 Olympics for running a state-sponsored system to dope athletes and cover up positive tests. However the IOC created a process for athletes to compete if they could prove their anti-doping history. Those who were cleared will compete as Olympic Athletes from Russia. They’re not allowed to carry the Russian flag and their uniforms will say OAR. They will carry the IOC flag.
 
