Winter Games
I know it may seem like I am piling on the hate the Winter Olympics always gets every four years, but there is a valid point to be made here. I consider myself a big sports fan and yet, I don’t care that the Winter Olympics are happening.
I will end up watching some events of the 23rd Winter Olympiad, but the fact of the matter is that I ultimately do not care about the Winter Olympics.
Granted, this could just be a personal preference. As someone who is born and raised in Texas, the idea of doing things on snow and ice scares the living daylights out of me.
So why don’t people care about the Winter Olympics? One thing is the number of countries that compete in the Winter Olympics. The winter games have never been hosted in the Southern Hemisphere, and while countries from the Southern Hemisphere do compete, it’s on a much smaller scale.
It also doesn’t help that the Winter Olympics are held in February, a time that is cold to us in Texas, but is actually summertime in the Southern Hemisphere.
This transitions into the next point: what’s wrong with having the Winter Olympics in the Southern Hemisphere during our summertime, which would be wintertime down there?
It feels weird to be holding a huge event like the Winter Olympics during a two-week period in February. Part of the reason the Summer Olympics work is the time of the year they are held (late-July to mid-August).
It feels like a fitting end to the summer when those Olympics close. The Winter Olympics just kind of start, then happen, then kind of end abruptly.
I’m not sure if moving the Winter Olympics to a different time of year would fix everything, but it wouldn’t hurt to try. Plus, wouldn’t a Winter Olympics in Santiago, Chile, be exciting to watch, if only out of sheer curiosity?
Another reason people don’t care about the winter games – the sports that are featured. These Olympic sports not only involve ice and/or snow, but many involve falling/sliding down ice or snow as fast as humanly possible.
Can you tell me the difference between the luge and the skeleton without looking it up? I understand that most Olympic sports involve doing something as fast as humanly possible. But many sports at the Winter Olympics feature sliding downhill over ice, which, while impressive, is slightly less impressive than someone running really fast.
Something else that works against the Winter Olympics is the smaller number of events and sports. In the 2016 Summer Olympics, there were 324 events across 33 different sports. In this year’s Winter Olympics, there are 102 events across 15 different sports.
One enjoyable thing about the Summer Olympics is turning on the TV and seeing a random sport being played. There's much less opportunity for that to happen during the winder games.
It may seem that I don't like the Winter Olympics, but that's simply not true. Australian short-track speed skater Steven Bradbury winning the gold medal in the 1000 meter race at the 2002 Olympics after every other competitor crashed on the final corner is my single favorite Olympic moment of all-time. Go watch the video of that race; his reaction alone makes it worth the watch.
”Cool Runnings” (based loosely on the story of the Jamaican national bobsleigh team’s drive to compete in the 1988 Olympics) and “Miracle” (about the U.S. men's hockey team that beat the favored Soviets to win the gold in the 1980 Winter Olympics) are very good movies. And the Jamaican women’s bobsleigh team is competing at this year's Olympics!
Olympic hockey is really fun to watch, even if National Hockey League players aren’t playing this year. It is always fun to root for the American athletes, especially after NBC shows all those features about every single athlete competing.
What I’m trying to say is, I know I will turn on the TV and enjoy whatever event I see. The Winter Olympics truly is a spectacle of sport, even if half of it is sliding down ice really fast.
+1 
