BTS Fans Loved That “DNA” Was Played at the 2018 Winter Olympics
This is how you kick off the Olympics.
February 9, 2018 11:54 AM
2017 American Music Awards - Show
LOS ANGELES, CA - NOVEMBER 19:  Music group BTS performs onstage during the 2017 American Music Awards at Microsoft Theater on November 19, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.  (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images)
Kevin Winter
The 2018 Winter Olympics have officially kicked off in Pyeongchang, South Korea and, in the grand tradition of the Olympics, things began with a stellar opening ceremony. There was no shortage of pomp and circumstance for the celebrations, but K-pop fans were particularly stoked when it came to one of their favorite boy band making somewhat of a cameo: none other than the beloved BTS .
Unfortunately for their fandom, BTS didn't perform at the opening ceremonies even though many hoped for the possibility . However, plenty of other famous South Korean musicians were present at the Olympics' first night. According to CNN , girl groups AOA and Girl's Day, along with Big Bang's Taeyang, were made honorary Olympic ambassadors. "K-Pop is one of the most well-known and successful Korean cultures throughout the world," Lee Kyusang, who is in charge of honorary ambassador management at the Olympics, told CNN. "Appointing K-pop artists as honorary ambassadors has brought much attention to the Games."
But BTS was present in another form — their music was played during the opening ceremonies and the #BTSArmy was out in full force on Twitter. When the time came, BTS fans tweeted out their excitement at hearing the group's hit song "DNA" being played as various nations came out into the opening ceremony stadium during the Parade of Nations. That's somewhat of a performance, right? And even if it doesn't, we can still keep our fingers crossed that maybe (just maybe) BTS will perform at the closing ceremony; keep those fingers crossed.
One person tweeted, "BTS wasn't able to perform at the #Olympics but athletes keep on mentioning BTS and DNA was played as a bg music." Another person wrote, "Army even if @BTS_twt weren't announced for the #OpeningCeremony of #PyeongChang2018 #olympics we believe they'll be happy if we help making it succeed cause at the end it's their home country ... We're a worldwide fanbase so let's support it." So at least the group is getting some recognition and attention.
