Search
Search→
BROWSER UPDATE To gain access to the full experience, please upgrade your browser: Chrome | Safari | Firefox | Internet Explorer
Note: If you are running Internet Explorer 10 and above, make sure it is not in compatibility mode.
Complete Coverage
Winter Olympics 2018: Full Coverage From Pyeongchang
Last Updated Feb 18, 2018 at 4:15 am ET
Dispatches, analysis and breaking news from our team in South Korea. Sign up for our daily Olympics Briefing and watch our full lineup of videos .
SHARE
U.S. Falling Flat in Race for Olympic Medals
Jason Gay: Dick Button’s Cool With Twitter—and a Tie
At the Pyeongchang Games: Where Is the Beat?
See only Editors' Picks
Sign Up for Our Olympics Briefing
Reporting live from the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Get the smartest insights delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our Olympics Briefing .
Facebook
What to Watch Saturday (and Early Sunday)
All times Eastern:
8:15 p.m.: Alpine skiing continues with the men’s Super-G.
11:15 p.m.: The men’s ski slopestyle finals, an event the U.S. swept in Sochi in 2014.
6:05 a.m.: The 2-man bobsled begins with two heats on Sunday and concludes with two heats on Monday.
6:56 a.m.: In speedskating, the women’s 500 meters is likely to come down to two rivals : Lee Sang-hwa of South Korea and Japan’s Nao Kodaira.
Nao Kodaira, left, from Japan and Lee Sang-Hwa from South Korea after competing in the women's 500 meters at the ISU Speed Skating World Cup in Heerenveen, Netherlands, in November.LAMPEN/EPA-EFE/REX/SHUTTERSTOCK/EPA/SHUTTERSTOCK
Jim Chairusmi
Twitter
What You Need to Know Saturday
U.S. DISAPPOINTMENT CONTINUES: Team USA suffered through another rough day Saturday, adding a single medal to a total that now stands at just nine . That’s less than half of Norway’s current haul of 21, and way behind Team USA’s showing at the same point in the 2014 Sochi Games. Germany has the most golds with nine. American short-track speedskater John-Henry Krueger salvaged the day for the U.S. late Saturday with a silver medal in the 1000 meters.
VONN COMES UP SHORT: Lindsey Vonn was the latest star to falter. The veteran superstar, who is the most accomplished women’s Alpine skier ever, tied for sixth in the Super G after a wide turn on the lower half of the course cost her about a second. The 33-year-old Vonn’s quest to become the oldest female Alpine skier to ever win a medal now turns to the downhill, scheduled for Tuesday, where she may or may not race against teammate Mikaela Shiffrin. Stranger than Vonn losing was who won: the Czech Republic’s Ester Ledecka, who is more of a snowboarder than a skier and looked dumbstruck when she saw her time. Ledecka was so shocked to win that she wore goggles to her post-race press conference, because she wasn’t wearing makeup.
FIGURE SKATING FEAT: Japan’s Yuzuru Hanyu became the first man in more than 60 years to win back-to-back gold medals in figure skating . Skating before an arena packed with shrieking Japanese fans, Hanyu topped a field that unleashed an onslaught of quadruple jumps, which were rare four years ago in Sochi but now must be performed multiple times by any serious competitor. But one of the top “quad” revolutionaries, 18-year-old American Nathan Chen, missed the podium. After a disastrous short program that left him in 17th place, Chen rebounded with a spectacular free skate in which he attempted a record six quadruple jumps, landing five of them cleanly. He posted the biggest score of the day, but it wasn’t enough to close the even bigger gap.
Bruce Orwall,
A Surprise Silver for John-Henry Krueger
Silver medallist John-Henry Krueger of the U.S. celebrates. Reuters
GANGNEUNG, South Korea — American short-track speedskater John-Henry Krueger crossed the finish line, raised his hands to the sky and, when he skated around to his coaches, sank to his knees. Krueger had scrapped his way past into an improbable final of the 1,000 meters and survived a squeeze by two of the heavily-favored South Korean skaters. Now, with the Koreans behind him, he had his Olympic medal.
Never mind that it was silver.
Krueger, a 22-year-old from Pittsburgh, collected Team USA’s only medal of the day on Saturday in a race that saw three of the five finalists crash. He finished behind Samuel Girard of Canada, but had somehow beaten South Korea on their turf, four years after missing the Sochi Olympics due to swine flu.
Seo Yira, who accidentally took out his own teammate, scrambled to his feet in time to skate across the line for bronze.
The women’s 1,500 meters gave the 12,000 fans inside Gangneung Ice Arena more to shout about. Choi Min-jeong, the 18-year-old world record holder over the distance, claimed South Korea’s third gold medal of the Games, ahead of Li Jinyu of China and Kim Boutin of Canada. The biggest shock came when Shim Suk-hee, the highest-profile short-track skater in the country, crashed out less than halfway into her first heat of the night, sliding into the pads right in front of South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
But that seemed long forgotten by the end of the night, as the arena rocked and Moon took selfies with fans.
“Physically I am so burned out,” Choi said, “but inside I am so happy, so proud of my whole country.”
Joshua Robinson
Facebook
Twitter
Japanese Star Hanyu Takes Gold, First Male Skater in 60 Years to Win in Back-to-Back Olympics
GANGNEUNG, South Korea — Japan’s Yuzuru Hanyu defended his Olympic title, overcoming a mid-season injury to become the first man in more than sixty years to win back-to-back gold medals in figure skating.
Hanyu's powerful performance included four quadruple jumps.
Japanese fans who packed the arena for Hanyu — and Japanese reporters who had followed his presence since his security-guarded arrival here — were rewarded with a silver medal for Hanyu’s compatriot Shoma Uno, one of a handful of male figure skaters who have rocked their sport over the past four years with an explosion of quadruple jumps.
The men’s final shattered a host of Olympic records, both in the technical content attempted by the skaters and the quality of their performances. Many doubled the number of quadruple jumps they had offered four years ago in Sochi, in performances that were also marred by significant errors even from the medalists.
Hanyu’s training mate Javier Fernandez won a bronze medal, becoming the first Spaniard to win a figure skating medal. He did so despite coming from a country with a figure skating tradition so slender that it has been barely able to hold a national championships for much of Fernandez’s career.
Nathan Chen, the American whose gold medal hopes were dashed after a disastrous short program left him in 17th position, fought back Saturday to set an international and Olympic record of his own by attempting six quadruple jumps in the free skate, and performing five of them cleanly.
The performance rocketed Chen to fifth place overall, with compatriots Vincent Zhou and Adam Rippon all finishing within the top ten skaters.
Louise Radnofsky
Twitter
A Rebound for Nathan Chen
Nathan Chen came back in the men’s free skate from the two worst short programs of his senior career to set a new international and Olympic record by attempting six quadruple jumps and landing five of them cleanly in his “Mao’s Last Dancer” long program.
The 18-year-old Chen has been one of the drivers of the explosion of quadruple jumps in the men’s event in the past four years. For context, Yuzuru Hanyu won the 2014 Olympic title with one clean quadruple jump in his long program; he is expected to attempt four here later today, as may his chief rival, Shoma Uno, also of Japan.Chen set past high bars for the world by landing four, and then five quadruple jumps in his long programs.
Chen’s program here earned him a score of 215.08 — potentially crushing for his rivals on a different day, but one that will likely still not be enough to earn him a medal after his 17th place finish in the short program. He currently has a total of 297.35.
Still, he said, the performance was redemptive for him and came after he was buoyed by supportive messages that he could still go out and make the most of his time on Olympic ice.
“I was just so low there was nothing I could lose at that point,” said Chen, who reeled off a quadruple lutz, two quadruple flips, two quadruple toe loops and a quadruple salchow, two of them in combination with other jumps, and with only one error on a quadruple flip, where he put a hand down on landing. He also secularly completed his triple axel, which had floored him in previous programs.
Louise Radnofsky
The Pride Flag Waves at the Olympics For Adam Rippon
Getty Images
GANGNEUNG, South Korea—Ian Rodriguez realized not long before the Pyeongchang Games that he would be in Asia with his husband during the Olympics. “Let’s go,” he said. Rodriguez bought tickets, changed his travel plans and went on Amazon to buy something he wanted to pack for his last-minute trip: a Pride flag with stars and rainbow stripes.
Rodriguez, a 35-year-old X-ray technician from Las Vegas, brought that flag to the men’s figure-skating competition on Friday morning here and unfurled it after the short program of Adam Rippon, the first American figure skater to compete at the Olympics while openly gay.
It was a remarkable sight: Rippon basking in the crowd’s support after the best skate of his life, even holding his hand to his ear to ask for more noise, as Rodriguez waved a flag representing equality in the Olympic arena.
“He’s someone who represents my country and represents me,” Rodriguez said. “I feel like our community is not represented enough, and I’m proud that he has the balls to come out and be like: I’m gay, and I’m an Olympic athlete, and here I am. He doesn’t care what anyone thinks. He’s there for our community.”
As recently as four years ago in Sochi, there were no publicly gay U.S. Olympians. There are now three—Rippon, freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy and speed-skater Brittany Bowe—and Rodriguez came to Pyeongchang in part to cheer for them specifically. “The fact that we have three athletes in the U.S. who are out and representing the LGBT community was even more of a push,” he said. “Everyone always comes out after they win their medal. And it’s like, well, it would be great if it was during the Olympics.”
Rodriguez isn’t a diehard Olympics fan. “I don’t have everyone’s names memorized or anything like that,” he said. He barely knew who Rippon was before the Games began.
It was through following Kenworthy that he learned of the flashy and sassy Rippon—the one who competes in a tight mesh shirt with shorter sleeves for the Olympics, once clarified that his butt was real, recently called himself a  and  that “I don’t want people to get distracted and forget how beautiful I am (on the outside)”—and Rodriguez knew he had to be there for what turned out to be a brilliant skate .
Rippon, an unlikely first-time Olympian, found himself in seventh place as the top American skater after the short program on Friday, and Rodriguez celebrated by waving the flag he bought on Amazon. Figure-skating fans have long waved countries’ flags at international competitions and homemade banners for particular skaters at local events. But the Pride flag was so new that Rippon—one of three figure skaters competing here while openly gay, an Olympic first—couldn’t help but notice it when he qualified for Team USA at the national championships last month.
“It’s overwhelming,” Rippon told The Wall Street Journal afterward. “It’s something that I’ve never seen before, and it’s something that’s so awesome.”
Rodriguez brings his Pride flag wherever he goes in Pyeongchang. When he posted a photo of himself on Instagram displaying the flag at last week’s Opening Ceremony, he tagged people he thought would be interested, like Kenworthy, Rippon and Bowe. “I even put RuPaul,” he said.
Kenworthy himself saw the notification on his Instagram and commented underneath Rodriguez’s post. “Thanks so much!” he wrote with three heart emojis.
This is Rodriguez’s first time to the Olympics, like Rippon, and he didn’t know what to expect. He said he’s enjoying the Winter Games so much that he’s already planning a trip to the next Summer Games.
Ben Cohen, Louise Radnofsky
