South Korea’s dog meat trade exposed: Pictures Seoul does not want Olympic tourists to see
GETTY/Express/ Mark Kehoe
Shocking images have emerged of the ongoing dog meat trade
SOUTH Korea’s PyeongChang Winter Olympics is set to kick off with the Opening Ceremony on Friday. However, shocking images have emerged of the ongoing dog meat trade which official have attempted to keep secret from tourists.
PUBLISHED: 22:01, Wed, Feb 7, 2018
UPDATED: 23:05, Wed, Feb 7, 2018
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share with Email Share via Whatsapp
Selling or serving dog meat is considered a legal grey area in South Korea. Officially, the act is frowned upon but as new photo revealed the consumption of dogs is still tolerated due to huge public demand.
It is believed one in three Koreans have eaten dog meat at least once, with one in 20 considered to be regular diners, according to a reports.
The Moran market in Seongnam, the country's largest open-air dog market, is located just outside of Seoul and is around 70 miles away the PyeongChang Stadium, where the Winter Olympics will begin on Friday.
Authorities claimed the dog meat trade was supposed to close in May last year – but the practice has just become more hidden.
At the time a Seongnam city official Kang Won-gu said: “Starting off with the removal of slaughtering facilities and cages in the market, we will ultimately stop the dog meat trade in Moran Market.” 
Advertisement
Express/Mark Kehoe
An estimated 17,000 dog farms still operate in South Korea with 2.5 million animals killed a year
However, new images reveal dog carcasses being sold in the market as well as traditional dog-meat soup. 
In an apparent move to keep the dog meat trade hidden from the outside world, the markets now ban visitors from taking photographs inside.
Up to 80,000 dogs are said to sold and slaughtered each year to be made into the £5 soup – which local folklore claims will boost the eater's sex drive when digested.
In one stall, three middle-aged women share the ancient recipe for the dog-meat Korean bosintang soup.
A woman in her 50s told the Mail: “It's just like making any meat soup. 
Behind the scenes at PyeongChang 2018
Princess Ann is in Pyeongchang for the Winter OlympicsTwitter
Members of North Korean cheering squad look at themselves in a mirror at a ladies' room at an expressway service area in GapyeongREUTERS
Figure skater Cha Jun-Hwan of South Korea during practice at the Gangneung Ice Arena prior to the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Games, South KoreaEPA
HRH visits every games as a both a Member of the IOC and to support @TeamGB as President of the British Olympic AssociationTwitter
North Korean cheering squads wave upon their arrival at the Korean-transit office near the Demilitarized Zone in PajuREUTERS
Members of North Korean cheering squad arrive at a hotel in InjeREUTERS
Members of North Korean cheering squad arrive at a hotel in InjeREUTERS
Norwegian biathletes Ingrid Landmark Tandrevold (L) and Tiril Eckhoff pose in the Olympic village of Pyeongchang two days before the opening of the 2018 Winter Olympic GamesSergei Bobylev/TASS
A Protester with a poster of Kim Jong Un outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
A Protester with a poster of Kim Jong Un outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
Protesters outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
Protesters outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
Protesters outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
Protesters outside the Seonhak International ice rink, Seoul, where a North/South Unified Korean Ice Hockey team are playing their first practice match against SwedenPA
North Korean Olympic team arrives in South KoreaREUTERS
North Korean Olympic team arrives in South KoreaREUTERS
North Korean athletes arrive at the the Olympic Village in GangneungREUTERS/
Putin meets Russian athletes participating in Winter Olympic GamesEPA
The Olympic flame is tested in its cauldron during a rehearsal for the upcoming 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games in PyeongchangREUTERS
A combination of three photographs pictured the Olympic flame as it is tested in its cauldron during a rehearsal for the upcoming 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games in PyeongchangREUTERS
South Korean police SWAT team demonstrate the anti-terror operation at the starting ceremony of PyeongChang Olympic Security Force before PyeongChang 2018Getty Images
North Koreans who defected to the South tear pictures of North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un during a press conference against the North's attendance at the Pyeongchang OlympicsAFP/Getty Images
Police Stage Drills Ahead Of PyeongChang 2018Getty Images
South Korean police participate in the starting ceremony of PyeongChang Olympic Security Force before PyeongChang 2018Getty Images
South Korean police SWAT team demonstrate the anti-terror operation at the starting ceremony of PyeongChangGetty Images
North Korean women's ice hockey players arrive at the South Korea's national training center in Jincheon, South KoreaEPA
Members of a North Korean Olympic advance team and its women's ice hockey players cross into South Korea via the customs, immigration and quarantine office in Paju, South KoreaEPA
Ryom Tae-ok and Kim Ju-sik of North Korea perform during the Pairs Short Program at the Figure Skating Four Continents Championships in Taipei, TaiwanEPA
Members of conservative groups burn an image of North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un during a rally against North Korea's participation to the PyeongChang Winter OlympicsEPA
Bronze medalist Kim Ju Sik of North Korea hugs his coach after a news conferenceREUTERS
Ryom Tae Ok and Kim Ju Sik of North Korea practiceREUTERS
Hyon Song Wol, head of the North Korea's Samjiyon Orchestra, inspects a gymnasium in GangneungREUTERS
Hyon Song Wol, head of the North Korea's Samjiyon Orchestra, arrives at the Gangneung Art Centre in GangneungREUTERS
A bus transporting a North Korean team which will inspect an art venue for the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics arrives on the Grand Unification Bridge near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas in PajuREUTERS
Princess Ann is in Pyeongchang for the Winter Olympics
Twitter
Advertisement
“I can't tell you about how to slaughter the animal because it's not really allowed, it's tolerated.
“But once you have the meat you cook it with vegetables and spices in a rich broth and serve it piping hot. It's very popular.” 
The carcass of a large adult dog sells for up to 200,000 South Korean won, $180 or £130, and about $18.00 per pound or £6.50 per kg - making the dog meat trade highly profitable.
Two-month-old puppies are reportedly sold for £6.50 out of metal crates and cardboard boxes, with some signs saying they can be eaten too.
A trader said: “The dogs are for pets or for the kitchen, it's up to you. After you buy a dog you can do with it what you like.”
NC
Dogs are sold and slaughtered to be made into the £5 soup
One sign in market threatens trespassers with prosecution if they take photographs inside the property and a CCTV camera records everyone. 
The shocking revelation comes after 13 dogs rescued from a South Korean meat farm death row arrived in Britain last month to start lives as cherished pets. 
Pete Wicks from The Only Way is Essex met the dogs at Heathrow Airport after he took part in their rescue mission.
Mr Wicks had teamed up animal welfare charity Humane Society International to help shut down the dog meat farm two hours’ drive from the capital Seoul.
He said: “Nothing could have prepared me for how dreadful a dog meat farm really is.
EXPRESS
Authorities claimed the dog meat trade was supposed to close in May last year
“Endless rows of dogs shivering in the bitter cold on freezing metal bars, a look of utter hopelessness in their eyes. 
"Some of them cowered at the back of their cage, clearly traumatised by their ordeal, while others wagged their tails nervously and even offered me a paw. 
"Their resilience and trust despite their harrowing ordeal really moved me. 
“Helping the HSI rescue team close down that hellish place was one of the proudest experiences of my life, and I’m thrilled to finally be reunited with the 13 dogs who will find their forever homes here in the UK.”
An estimated 17,000 dog farms still operate across South Korea with as many as 2.5 million animals a year are killed.
Related articles
