Paving the Path to Pyeongchang
February 5, 2018 10:31am
This month, thousands of athletes will head to South Korea to showcase their skills in the 2018 Olympic Games. They've taken different paths. Some started in traditional Winter Games sports, like men's and women's ice hockey. Others developed their skills as runners, jumpers and throwers competing under the summer sun. But for many, the chance to develop their skills with world-class coaching in college, whether as a hockey player or a track athlete, opened the door to even greater opportunities. For a fortunate few, college athletics opened a door to Olympic glory. These are the stories of the paths that brought them to Pyeongchang.
148 incoming, current and former NCAA athletes are competing in the Winter Games. They represent 21 countries across 6 continents. These students studied at 63 universities from all 3 divisions. Read the List >>
The Experience
College athletics teaches hundreds of thousands of young people the skills needed to succeed each year, whether it's on the field, in the careers they pursue after their playing careers or, for a fortunate few, in competition among the world's best athletes in the Olympics. During their college careers, these athletes found a platform to develop their skills, build their confidence and understand how to compete on the international stage.
Read More > >
What Student-Athletes Can Receive
When college athletes compete on the international stage, questions naturally arise about the support they are able to receive to help them in their quest for Olympic glory. Here are answers to some of those questions.
 
Do student-athletes have to pay their own way to the Olympics if they're competing?
College athletes have a few options for helping to cover actual and necessary expenses to compete in the Olympics. For example, they can accept funds for actual and necessary expenses from either the national governing body or their NCAA school.
Can college athletes accept prize money at the Olympics?
College athletes who are representing their country may accept prize money from their country's Olympics governing body (in the United States, that would be the United States Olympic Committee). There is no limit to the award money that the governing body can provide for the Olympics.
Can families crowdfund to travel to the Olympics to watch their college athletes compete?
For families of collegiate Olympians, crowdfunding for actual and necessary expenses (including travel) from outside sources, including directly from a commercial organization, is allowed. However, boosters, agents and professional sports organizations may not make donations to a family's crowdfunding site. Generally speaking, the NCAA waiver process is available to schools that would like boosters to be able to contribute to those funds, and those waivers are handled on a case-by-case basis.
What if the semester starts while the student-athlete is competing in Pyeongchang?
Participating in the Olympics may require student-athletes to balance academic demands with the opportunity to compete on an international level. NCAA rules require that member schools have policies in place for missed class time. However, each school will work on an individual basis with its student-athletes who are Olympians.
Winter Games in Real Time
Follow along for Olympic updates from student-athletes and the schools they represent.
