By Raisa Bruner
February 9, 2018
Korean musical artist PSY’S “Gangnam Style” came out back in 2012 — and, thanks to a zany music video, became a viral hit that broke YouTube. (In fact, it was YouTube’s most-watched video up until last year’s success of “Despacito.” ) And six years later at the Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony in PyeongChang, the tune got some major airtime during the ever-amusing Parade of Nations, to the surprise of many watching from home.
South Korea chose to soundtrack the entrance of some of the Olympic teams during the extended sequence with the catchy K-pop track. The U.S. delegation was, in fact, one of the lucky segments that got to walk into the stadium with PSY’s hit serenading their stately march.
The United States of America are entering to the Olympic Stadium to Gangnam Style as Mike Pence waves to them.
Welcome to 2018. #OpeningCeremony
— Scott Bryan (@scottygb) February 9, 2018
I didn’t know I needed to see our nation’s very greatest human specimens and also mike pence set to gangnam style and yet here we are
— Claire McNear (@claire_mcnear) February 9, 2018
If you were keeping track, it took a full 36 minutes for Gangnam Style to play. Organizers showing much restraint.
— Nathan VanderKlippe (@nvanderklippe) February 9, 2018
Morocco is entering to Gangnam Style. It's lit
— Sung Min Kim (@sung_minkim) February 9, 2018
강남스타일
— angsty rebellious teen (@pineapplekooks) February 9, 2018
"Do they call this K-pop?" the CBC's Scott Russell wonders out loud, as "Gangnam Style" plays during the Parade of Nations.
— Jonathan Goldsbie (@goldsbie) February 9, 2018
As athletes march at the Opening Ceremony, biggest cheer is when Psy’s Gangnam Style starts playing #pyeongchang2018
— Paula Hancocks (@PHancocksCNN) February 9, 2018
“Gangnam Style” may be the most recognizable K-pop song to U.S. audiences, but it wasn’t the only part of the playlist. Popular groups like Twice, BTS and DNA also got songs picked for all the world to hear during the parade.
The songs played during the athletes  parade.
PSY – GANGNAM STYLE
