Live updates and highlights: Winter Olympics 2018 opening ceremonies
Updated
February  9, 2018 at  9:56 PM
; Posted
February  9, 2018 at  6:43 PM
South Korean gold medal figure skater Yuna Kim lights the cauldron as the 2018 Winter Olympics officially begin.
Comment
cwray@al.com
The 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea are now officially in full swing as the opening ceremonies have segued into the first rounds of competition for Team USA and other nations.
The opening ceremonies are broadcast tonight on NBC on a tape delay, but that doesn't mean we can't analyze and comment on everything happening on the other side of the world (even if there's a half-day time difference).
Here are some things I want to watch out for:
* The chilly atmosphere in the presidential box, where the South Korean president, the North Korean president's sister and U.S. veep Mike Pence will likely avoid each other.
* The appearance of the Team USA contingency. The excitement and patriotism  (and style!) is always palpable.
* "Gangham Style," because you know you're gonna hear it
Let's get the party started!
9:54 p.m.:
-- TODAY (@TODAYshow) February 10, 2018
9:45 p.m.: Just a beautiful lighting of the Olympic cauldron. South Korean gold medal figure skater Yuna Kim was the final carrier of the torch
9:33 p.m.: It's almost time for the Olympic torch to make its way into the stadium. Who will light the cauldron?
9:30 p.m.: I'm really enjoying this version of John Lennon's "Imagine." The peace doves are a wonderful image as well. 
9:25 p.m.: Another Olympic tradition is the welcome from the International Olympic Committee. IOC President Thomas Bach says that "we are stronger than all the forces that want to divide us" and thanks the unified team from Korea for their example. And then South Korean President Moon Jae-In declares the Olympics open.
9:13 p.m.: One thing you didn't see during the broadcast of the opening ceremonies was the appearance of impersonators of President Trump and President Kim Jong-un. (Of course, they were escorted out before they got too much attention.) Pretty good look-alikes.
These two impersonators were escorted out of the Olympic stadium, after creating quite a stir. https://t.co/0aDlpW3RDr #OpeningCeremony #Olympics pic.twitter.com/rAtw4U18Gb
-- USA TODAY (@USATODAY) February 10, 2018
9:08 p.m.: The festivities continue as the athletes take their seats. There will be more entertainment, the Olympic oath and the arrival of the torch.
9:03 p.m.: There it is! The joint delegations from North Korea and South Korea, marching together under a unified flag. That's such a huge deal, on a political level. You never know what the ultimate meaning is behind it (there's certainly skepticism due to North Korea's questionable stands on issues and increasing military presence), but it's certainly nice to see the athletes together. When you see "ordinary" people united, perhaps there's some hope.
There she is, the first member of North Korea's ruling family to set foot in South Korea since the Korean War https://t.co/4HMgeEfYyn pic.twitter.com/tDNlmvRzZt
-- Philip P. Pan (@panphil) February 9, 2018
8:45 p.m.: We've got the Tongan flag bearer back again, this time for the Winter Olympics (he's competing in cross country skiing). Pita Taufatofua is shirtless--which is quite the accomplishment with it being so cold in Korea tonight.
No shoes, no shirt, no problem.
Pita Taufatofua, Tonga's flag-bearer and only Olympic athlete is ready for #PyeongChang2018 pic.twitter.com/ZchGQwbfzX
-- CBC Olympics (@CBCOlympics) February 9, 2018
I am just glad Tongan did not toss a coin to pick their flag bearer. #Olympics2018 [?] #doyourthing #shine
-- Ken (@kenoldp) February 10, 2018
8:15 p.m.: There are 242 members of the American team, and here are some other cool stats: 108 are women, 10 are African American, 11 are Asian American and 2 are the first openly gay to participate in a Winter Olympics.
The age range is 17 to 39, with an average age of 26.4 years. The oldest U.S. athlete is hockey's Brian Gionta 1at 39. The youngest is 17-year-old figure skater Vincent Zhou.
8:12 p.m.: Who is the American flag bearer?
8:10 p.m.: An appropriate entry, I'd say.
. @TeamUSA walking out to Gangam Style was best possible thing that could've happened at the #OpeningCeremony #CantMissMoments [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] [?] pic.twitter.com/9O9oRqZlXr
-- Matt Williamson (@mattcwill) February 9, 2018
8:05 p.m.: Some history:
Nation with the most Winter Olympics medals: Norway (with 329)
Winter Olympics medals won by Team USA: 282
7:52 p.m.: As we get ready to see the American contingency, find out more about their outfits. They are fashionable in Ralph Lauren..and toasty warm in this 17 degree weather, with clothes that have a literal heater inside them.
7:45 p.m.: Here comes the parade of athletes. The parade begins traditionally with Greece, ends with the host country and goes in alphabetical order in between.
7:35 p.m.: As you watch the opening ceremonies, here are some ways to interact tonight and during the next two weeks at the Winter Olympics Twitter page , NBC's live streaming of events , and a full schedule of events .
7:24 p.m.: These athletes are just giving me life! Their excitement and exuberance and dedication is so inspiring and has me ready for the Olympics to start. And Maame's got to be the best:
"I feel so ecstatic!" @BineyMaame 's mood about being at the #WinterOlympics is everything. #BestOfUS https://t.co/onsM8Q9gMQ pic.twitter.com/513AnXT4bR
-- NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 10, 2018
7:10 p.m.: A big part of this ceremony and these Olympics is the story of Korea. The nation--for better or worse--has dominated the headlines (not just on the sports page, but in news and politics). As North Korea and South Korea march together into the Olympic stadium tonight it will be a most intriguing image.
7:01 p.m.: Yep, that's Sterling K. Brown from "This Is Us" narrating the introductory video about Team USA.
View Comments
