TimesPool
Camera Icon
The Crown Princess of Denmark, Mary Donaldson is by her gravely ill stepfather’s side as Prince Frederik rushes home from the Winter Olympics.Picture: AFP
Prince Frederik leaves Winter Olympics to join Princess Mary and kids at sick father’s bedside as his health ‘seriously worsens’
Reuters | News Corp Australia Network
February 9, 2018 11:38PM
DENMARK’S Crown Prince Frederik has left the Winter Olympics in South Korea to rush home to be with his father, Prince Henrik, whose condition has “seriously worsened”, the Danish Royal House said in a statement overnight.
Prince Henrik, the 83-year-old, French-born husband of Queen Margrethe, was last week diagnosed with a benign tumour.
Camera Icon
Denmark’s Prince Henrik (left) stands beside his daughter-in-law Princess Mary and his son Prince Frederik on their wedding day. AFPPicture: News Corp Australia
Prince Frederik’s Australian-born wife Crown Princess Mary visited Prince Henrik in hospital in Copenhagen on Friday local time along with two of her children.
He had been hospitalised following an illness that began during a private trip to Egypt.
Camera Icon
Prince Henrik, the 83-year-old husband of Queen Margrethe, was hospitalised in Copenhagen in late January and his health has deteriorated.Picture: AFP
“I know my brother is not well. It seems to be a question of weeks,” Prince Henrik’s brother, Etienne de Monpezat, said to Danish newspaper BT on Friday.
Born Henri Marie Jean Andre de Laborde de Monpezat in France in 1934, Prince Henrik married Queen Margrethe in 1967 and they have two sons, the Crown Prince and Prince Joachim.
Camera Icon
Mary and the couple’s two children have been at Prince Henrik’s bedside in hospital as Frederik rushed from PyeongChang.Picture: Getty Images, WireImage
The Royal House in September said Prince Henrik had been diagnosed with dementia.
That announcement came after Prince Henrik had been the centre of controversy as he had announced that he did not wish to be buried next to his wife, saying he was unhappy she never acknowledged him as her equal.
Camera Icon
Princess Mary with her father-in-law Prince Henrik in 2006.Picture: AP, Supplied
Prince Henrik’s passing would not mean a change in title for Prince Frederik and Princess Mary.
Queen Margrethe II is the ruling monarch of Denmark, who’s been on the throne since 1972 following the death of her father King Frederick IX.
Camera Icon
Danish Queen Margrethe and Prince Henrik in Copenhagen in 2016.Picture: AFP
Women have been allowed to inherit the throne in Denmark since 1952.
Prince Frederik and Princess Mary will become King and Queen of Denmark at the time of Queen Margrethe’s abdication or death.
