Tonga Once Again Stole the Olympics Opening Ceremony with Baby Oil and a Dream
Pita Taufatofua carried his country's flag—shirtless—in subzero temperatures.
Feb 9, 2018
Getty Images
So, you’re sitting there, waiting for the Olympic opening ceremonies from PyeongChang on Friday, knowing good and well that you are inferior to these people. Noted. But these are the Winter games, so at least there’s no body shame from seeing—oh, wait. Tonga Guy is here? Great. Wonderful.
It would seem that, every two years, Pita Taufatofua of Tonga is going to rise from the beaches of his native Polynesian island, choose a new skill to master, dive shirtless into a vat of baby oil, and steal the hearts of millions. And you know what? Good for him.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
The opening ceremonies, which took place Friday evening in Pyeongchang, South Korea, were a chilly affair with temperatures around 22° F. Naturally, Taufatofua sported a traditional Tongan skirt and flip flops because life is short, but ab glory is forever. The Bermudians, in shorts, were clearly shook.
Two years on from Rio and @PitaTaufatofua is topless again!  Welcome Tonga to the Winter @Olympics ! 
— Olympic Channel (@olympicchannel) February 9, 2018
After qualifying in taekwondo for the 2016 Rio games, and losing in the first round, Taufatofua quit his job as a social worker (as if he needed any more reason to be admired) to pursue a career as a cross country skier, an unnatural choice for a Polynesian islander. He made a huge splash after walking shirtless and oiled at the Summer Games opening ceremony.
Pita Taufatofua at the Summer Games in 2016, left, and at the Winter Games in 2018, right.
Getty Images
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
When asked if he’d be doing it again, he said : “I want to still be alive for my race. It is going to be freezing outside so I will be keeping nice and warm.”
You got jokes, Tonga man. But it turns out baby oil freezes at a much colder temperature than water, acting as an undulant while keeping your skin unchapped.
Never change, Pita.
