U.S. Alpine skiing star Mikaela Shiffrin rested, ready for Olympics
Mikaela Shiffrin’s schedule at the Pyeongchang Olympics remains in flux two days before the U.S. Alpine skiing star’s first race.
The slalom, where she’s the heavy favorite to win a second consecutive gold medal, and giant slalom are givens. The rest of the program — including the speed events she has found success in this season — will be determined as the Games unfold.
“I don’t have a solid answer for you yet,” Shiffrin said Saturday. “I would like to compete in everything, but I’m not sure if I’m actually going to have the energy to do that.”
Read More
Silver medal winner Nick Goepper celebrates after the men's slopestyle final at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. (Gregory Bull/Associated Press)
The American men knew it wasn’t going to be easy this time.
Four years ago, they dominated the Olympic ski slopestyle, finishing in the top three spots. But key injuries and some new faces figured to level the field at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
“There are so many countries so competitive and so good in slopestyle,” Gus Kenworthy, the defending silver medalist, said.
Read More
U.S. women's team employs revolutionary strategy to beat Finland: 'Score more goals'
Hilary Knight blocks a shot as goalie Maddie Rooney, right, protects her net against Canada. (Julio Cortez / Associated Press)
Don’t tell anyone, but here’s the revolutionary strategy the U.S. women’s hockey team has come up with in its quest to defeat Finland in the Olympic tournament semifinals on Monday and advance to the gold medal game.
“Score more goals than the other team,” forward Hilary Knight said Sunday. “It hasn’t changed.”
Getting the puck past Finland’s goaltender, University of Minnesota-trained Noora Raty, is never easy. When the teams met in the first round, the U.S. had to rally from a first-period 1-0 deficit and outshot Finland 42-24 but didn’t clinch its 3-1 victory until Dani Cameranesi scored into an empty net with 13 seconds left in the third period.
Read More
Defending gold medalist Ted Ligety 20th after first run in giant slalom
Defending champion Ted Ligety is in 20th place after the first giant slalom session Sunday at the Yongpyong Alpine Center.
The disappointing run essentially ended medal hopes in the event for Ligety, whose former prowess earned him the nickname “Mr. GS.”
Ligety trails Austria’s Marcel Hirscher, the giant slalom leader, by 2.44 seconds.
Read More
Mikaela Shiffrin on slalom disappointment: 'I don't think I could have done it differently'
Less than 24 hours after Mikaela Shiffrin’s unexpected fourth-place finish in the slalom, the U.S. Alpine skiing star grappled with the disappointment in a 270-word post on Instagram.
“I’ve gone over it a thousand times in my head, and I don’t think I could have done it differently even if I got a second chance,” Shiffrin wrote Saturday. “So I wouldn’t take back my emotions or excitement after the [giant slalom] in order to have better shot at a [slalom] medal too. You know, it’s not necessarily the medalists who get the most out of the Olympics. It’s those who are willing to strip down to nothing and bear their soul for their love of the game. That is so much greater than Gold, Silver, or Bronze.”
Shiffrin, the top-ranked overall skier on the World Cup circuit this season, won the giant slalom in her first race at the Pyeongchang Games.
Read More
Lindsey Vonn assailed on Twitter after failing to medal in super-G at Pyeongchang Olympics
The backlash started minutes after Lindsey Vonn skidded to a stop past the finish line at the Jeongseon Alpine Center on Saturday and mouthed “I tried.”
The most successful women’s Alpine skier in history tied for sixth in the super-G at the Pyeongchang Olympics after a mistake during a turn late in her run.
Posts assailing Vonn and celebrating the unexpected result quickly flooded Twitter, most of them tied to comments she made about President Trump last year.
Read More
Norovirus outbreak at Pyeongchang Olympics increases to 275 cases
Fourteen new cases of norovirus among staff and volunteers at the Pyeongchang Olympics were reported Saturday, the Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said, raising the total to 275 people infected.
Of those diagnosed with the highly contagious illness, 53 remain quarantined while the rest have returned to work.
Most of the cases — 111 — have been at the Horeb Youth Center with the others in Pyeongchang (83) and Gangneung (81). 
Read More
Ted Ligety will try to win the men's giant slalom today. (Peter Schneider / AP)
Saturday’s Winter Olympics TV schedule. All times Pacific.
6:30 a.m.: Freestyle skiing (men’s aerials qualifying). NBCSN
7:30 a.m.: Cross-country skiing (women’s 20-meter relay). NBCSN
Read More
Lindsey Vonn reacts in the finish area after competing in the women's super-G at the 2018 Winter Olympics. (Christophe Ena/Associated Press)
After an eight-year absence from the Olympics, Lindsey Vonn’s return ended in disappointment Saturday.  
Vonn, one of the most successful Alpine skiers in history, finished tied for sixth in the super-G at the Pyeongchang Olympics.
“It didn’t quite turn out the way I hoped,” she said.
Read More
Lindsey Vonn will not medal in the super-G event
Lindsey Vonn reacts in the finish area after competing in the women's super-G. (Christophe Ena / Associated Press)
Lindsey Vonn returned to the Olympics after an eight-year absence by finishing the super-G in 1:21.49. She was the first skier through the course at Jeongseon Alpine Center. After the run, she mouthed "I tried."
— Nathan Fenno (@nathanfenno) February 17, 2018
Vonn won’t medal in the super-G. Already dropped to fourth place early in the event.
— Nathan Fenno (@nathanfenno) February 17, 2018
There will be no medal for American skier Lindsey Vonn in the Olympic super-G at the Pyeongchang Games.
She had a fast run going before a mistake near the bottom cost her valuable time. Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein leads after the opening eight racers.
Vonn will have another chance in the downhill.
Read More
Feb. 16, 2018, 6:49 p.m.
By Associated Press
Hanyu wins gold again, Nathan Chen finishes fifth, Vincent Zhou sixth, Adam Rippon tenth
Nathan Chen competes during the men's single free program. (Jamie Squire/Getty Images)
Japan's Yuzuru Hanyu has become the first man to successfully defend his Olympic figure skating title since Dick Button in 1952. He held off countryman Shoma Uno, who won silver, and Spain's Javier Fernandez, who took bronze, in Saturday's free skate in Pyeongchang.
Fernandez and Hanyu share the same coach, Brian Orser.
American Nathan Chen surged from a fiasco of a short program, where he was 17th. He won the free skate to wind up fifth overall.
192.16 points for Vincent Zhou's five-quad program. total=276.69. Second at the moment, but lots of skaters to go.
— Helene Elliott (@helenenothelen) February 17, 2018
Jin Boyang of China nearly runs into boards, falls on quad, but passes Nathan Chen for first. Jin has 297.77, Chen has 297.35. Canada's Patrick Chan up now.
— Helene Elliott (@helenenothelen) February 17, 2018
Read More
