How to root for Team Mexico in the 2018 Winter Olympics
AP Photo/Michael Sohn
German Madrazo carries the flag of Mexico during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Friday, Feb. 9, 2018.
German Madrazo carries the flag of Mexico during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Friday, Feb. 9, 2018. (AP Photo/Michael Sohn)
2018 Winter Olympics
As a California border city in a region boasting some 5 million people between San Diego County and neighboring Tijuana to the south, San Diegans get to cheer for two countries in the 2018 Winter Olympics : Team USA and Team Mexico.
The Winter Games are officially underway and there is plenty to learn about the teams and the sporting events in Pyeongchang, Sourth Korea. Here is an NPR post that is a good place to learn all you want about Team USA and where its athletes come from .
Mexico’s team at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, consists of four athletes — the biggest delegation it has had at the Winter Games since in 1992 when 20 of its athletes competed in France .
Now, two of the four Mexico athletes were born in the U.S., a third one currently lives in Texas and the fourth doesn't even speak Spanish. Here is a little bit more about each of them.
Sarah Schleper, 38, alpine skiing
Sarah Schleper competes in the first run of the women's night slalom FIS Ski World Cup in Semmering 29 December 2004. Schleper clocked the fifth fastest time of the first run. JOE KLAMAR/AFP/Getty Images
About Schleper: The U.S.-born athlete switched to Mexico’s team after she married her Mexican husband Frederico Gaxiola in 2007 and then became a Mexican citizen in 2014, according to the Vail Daily , the newspaper of her hometown in Vail, Colorado. This will be her fifth Olympic Games.
Fun fact: Schleper speaks English, Spanish and German.
How to follow on social: @degalaxy on Instagram and @ssdegalaxy on Facebook.
Rodolfo Roberto Dickson, 20, alpine skiing
BTQHXz-j8YC
About Dickson: Dickson was born in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, in 1997 but was abandoned months after his birth. Years later, at the age of 3, he was adopted by a Canadian couple, the Mexican news outlet Milenio reported . He’s lived most of his life in Canada, and this will be his first Winter Olympics.
Fun fact: He doesn’t speak Spanish, according to Milenio .
How to follow on social: @rodolfo.dickson on Instagram and @rodolfo.dickson on Facebook.
Follow Dickson’s events here.
German Madrazo, 43, cross-country skiing
Mexican cross country skier German Madrazo poses at the Alpensia Olympic Park on the eve of the opening of the Pyeongchang 2018 Olympic Games on February 8, 2018 ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP/Getty Images
About Madrazo: Madrazo is a triathlete and a business owner . Though he is originally from Queretaro, Mexico, Madrazo has lived in McAllen, Texas, for the past 10 years of his life. He runs a running shoe store there. He was named the flag bearer for Mexico during the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics.
Fun fact: Madrazo is new to the sport. He picked it up in 2017 at the age of 42 .
How to follow on social: @madraco on Facebook and @german_madrazo on Instagram.
Robert Franco, 24, freestyle skiing
BeHcOEwHSvt
About Franco: Franco was born in San Jose, California , but has been allowed to compete on Mexico’s team thanks to the double nationality he has through his father.
Fun fact: Franco began skiing at the age of 2 and his father, John Franco, has been his coach.
How to follow on social: @robbyfrancoskiing on Instagram, @robbyfrancoskiing on Facebook and @robbyfrancoski on Twitter
