After Taylor Givens and Collin Kobelja had heart transplants, they recovered in adjacent rooms. When they reconnected years later, they fell in love.
Ziem Photography
Last week, he asked me to carry him downstairs. I could have said no, you are a big boy now. But I don’t say no. I juggle the other things in my hands and find...
Clare Barboza / Chinese Soul Food by Hsiao-Ching Chou
Cook up a feast of stir-fried noodles with shrimp, pork meatballs, pan-fried dumplings and healthy greens for your Lunar New Year celebration.
Shutterstock
Nobody wants to touch a dirty keyboard, so it's time to add these simple cleaning hacks to your weekly routine.
Courtesy of Zillow
There's quite a surprise inside!
Casey Barber / TODAY
What's better than a hearty plate of pasta for dinner? Making that meal in one pot!
Kristen Jerkins
Kristen Jerkins said she was shocked when she heard from Tom Hanks after sending him an invitation to her wedding.
TODAY
He has some serious skills!
Mcdonalds
The fast food chain is switching up its Happy Meal menu to promote healthier options for kids.
Getty Images
It might be the best thing that ever happened to your hair.
AFP-Getty Images, WireImage
The couple got married Tuesday in a surprise wedding ceremony in Malibu.
Getty Images stock
People who eat a lot of junk food may have other bad habits.
TODAY, Getty Images
Samantha Grady talks about the moments when a gunman opened fire at her Florida school, killing at least 17 people, including her best friend.
Instagram / @kyliesheaxo
She shared a beautiful moment of self-acceptance.
Courtesy of The Weber School District
When Natalie Richard learned her daughter's school had a policy against saying no to a dance request, she worried that it sent a bad message about consent....
Kelly and Mike Magnarini
After gaining weight together as they struggled with infertility, the Magnarinis realized their needed to lose it together. In 1 year they lost 115 pounds....
Getty Images stock
Hint: You're doing it not nearly enough!
FOR YOU
