Continue reading the main story
Photo
Kim Yo-jong, sister of Kim Jong-un, greeting the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, and his wife, Kim Jung-sook, at the opening ceremony. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times
Although athletes from the two Koreas marched under a unified flag, a group of traditionally dressed dancers and drummers formed the shape of the Taegeuk, the pattern that appears on the South Korean flag. And a paean to technological developments in artificial intelligence highlighted South Korean achievements.
A backlash against the last-minute participation of North Korea, particularly the addition of a dozen North Korean women’s ice hockey players onto the roster of the South Korean team , cast a shadow over a moment that was meant to exemplify unity .
“Instead of paying attention to all of the excellent athletes who are coming from all over the world, we are paying all our attention to the inter-Korean women’s hockey team,” Elisa Lee, a former table tennis champion and coach for South Korea and a former member of the National Assembly, said in an interview this week in Seoul. “I think it’s a little bit unfortunate.”
Critics also feared that in seeking better ties with North Korea, Mr. Moon had compromised too much.
“Bending to a dictator like Kim Jong-un is in conflict with the dignity” of South Koreans, wrote Yoon Pyung-joong, a professor of political philosophy at Hanshin University, in an editorial this month in Chosun Ilbo, a South Korean daily. “The crisis on the Korean Peninsula does not get resolved with a one-off event like sports games or an inter-Korean summit meeting.”
But the emotion of watching the Koreas march under the same flag moved some spectators. More than 100 South Koreans watching on a live stream on a screen in central Seoul applauded and cheered while watching that moment.
Continue reading the main story
Photo
Drummers performing during the opening ceremony. South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, sees the Games as central to his effort to proactively engage North Korea. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times
Kim Tae-yoon, 21, a media studies student from Cheonan, said that he had been dubious about the North Koreans participating in the Games.
“I wondered whether any of our efforts would be a step towards unification when we could very well just be used for North Korean propaganda,” Mr. Kim said. “But the two Koreas marching together looked good. I hope that the Pyeongchang Olympics will be remembered as one where we showed the world that we communicated well with North Korea.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Perhaps the most stirring moment of the evening came when the penultimate torch bearers were revealed as Chung Su-hyon, a North Korean player for the unified Korean hockey team, and Park Jong-ah, a South Korean player. The pair carried the torch up the final flight of steps and handed it off to Yuna Kim, the profoundly popular South Korean figure skater who won the gold medal in 2010 and the silver in 2014.
This event was not the first time that athletes from North and South Korea have marched together under one flag. They did so in 2000 at the Sydney Olympics in Australia, in 2004 in Athens, and in 2006 in Torino, Italy.
But by doing so in South Korea — and in Gangwon Province, where North Korea is visible from the peaks of the ski slopes — the symbolism this time was particularly striking. It also provided a stark contrast to the 1988 Summer Olympic Games in Seoul, where the North Koreans did not compete after organizing a terrorist attack in which spies blew up a South Korean airliner 10 months before the Games, killing everyone on board.
Newsletter Sign Up
Continue reading the main story
2018 Olympics Newsletter
For 19 days, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics. You’ll get the best from Pyeongchang: The events to watch, the stories to read and more.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
