olympics 2018
5 Things to Know About Lindsey Vonn as She Goes for the Gold at the 2018 Winter Olympics
Lindsey Vonn of USA takes 1st place during the Audi FIS Alpine Ski World Cup Women's Super G on December 16, 2017 in Val-d'Isere, France.
Michel Cottin/Agence Zoom—Getty Images
By Sean Gregory
January 4, 2018
After missing the 2014 Olympics in Sochi because of a knee injury, Lindsey Vonn—the most successful women’s ski racer in history—is set to return to the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea in 2018 , where she’ll race in speed events and try to add to her Olympic medal haul.
On this season’s World Cup circuit, which serves as an elite-level tune-up for the Olympics, Vonn has already secured a victory, an emotional win at at Super-G event in Val d’Isere, France. She fought tears because her father, who had never seen her race at the venue, was in the crowd. Over the New Year’s holiday, Vonn returned home to Colorado and put in some training time in Aspen.
With the 2018 Winter Olympics beginning on Feb. 9, here are five things to know about Vonn:
1. Vonn’s Injuries Don’t Keep Her Down
Despite being bitten by injuries throughout her remarkable career, Vonn, 33, has compiled more World Cup wins—78—than any female ski racer in history. At the 2006 Torino Olympics, for example, she crashed during a training run and had to be airlifted off the mountain. The accident, however, didn’t keep her from competing in the downhill, where she finished eighth. Crashes did end her 2013, 2014 and 2016 seasons prematurely.
In November, Vonn broke her right arm in a training crash in Cooper Mountain, Colorado. And in December, Vonn hurt her back during a Super-G race in St. Mortiz, Switzerland. She roiled in pain after crossing the finish, and came in 24th place. But just a week later Vonn was back atop a podium, winning in Val d’Isere.
“I guess I’m not a washed-up old hag,” Vonn said after her victory. “I think I proved myself, and karma definitely comes back around. I’ve got some good karma coming my way.”
Now that is a complement! thank you!! https://t.co/fWVllXRHyq
— lindsey vonn (@lindseyvonn) December 17, 2017
2. Vonn Has Taken on Trump
Vonn waded squarely into America’s contentious political climate when she told CNN in December that she would not accept an invitation from President Donald Trump to visit the White House. Traditionally, American Olympians come to Washington for a White House stop after the Games. “I hope to represent the people of the United States,” Vonn said, “not the president.”
While some people praised Vonn, the skiier shared on Instagram that others had hoped she would break her neck for “being anti-Trump.”
