Lindsey Vonn reacts in the finish area after competing in the women's super-G at the 2018 Winter Olympics. (Christophe Ena/Associated Press)
After an eight-year absence from the Olympics, Lindsey Vonn’s return ended in disappointment Saturday.  
Vonn, one of the most successful Alpine skiers in history, finished tied for sixth in the super-G at the Pyeongchang Olympics.
“It didn’t quite turn out the way I hoped,” she said.
Read More
Lindsey Vonn will not medal in the super-G event
Lindsey Vonn reacts in the finish area after competing in the women's super-G. (Christophe Ena / Associated Press)
Lindsey Vonn returned to the Olympics after an eight-year absence by finishing the super-G in 1:21.49. She was the first skier through the course at Jeongseon Alpine Center. After the run, she mouthed "I tried."
— Nathan Fenno (@nathanfenno) February 17, 2018
Vonn won’t medal in the super-G. Already dropped to fourth place early in the event.
— Nathan Fenno (@nathanfenno) February 17, 2018
There will be no medal for American skier Lindsey Vonn in the Olympic super-G at the Pyeongchang Games.
She had a fast run going before a mistake near the bottom cost her valuable time. Tina Weirather of Liechtenstein leads after the opening eight racers.
Vonn will have another chance in the downhill.
Read More
Feb. 16, 2018, 6:49 p.m.
By Associated Press
Hanyu wins gold again, Nathan Chen finishes fifth, Vincent Zhou sixth, Adam Rippon tenth
Nathan Chen competes during the men's single free program. (Jamie Squire/Getty Images)
Japan's Yuzuru Hanyu has become the first man to successfully defend his Olympic figure skating title since Dick Button in 1952. He held off countryman Shoma Uno, who won silver, and Spain's Javier Fernandez, who took bronze, in Saturday's free skate in Pyeongchang.
Fernandez and Hanyu share the same coach, Brian Orser.
American Nathan Chen surged from a fiasco of a short program, where he was 17th. He won the free skate to wind up fifth overall.
192.16 points for Vincent Zhou's five-quad program. total=276.69. Second at the moment, but lots of skaters to go.
— Helene Elliott (@helenenothelen) February 17, 2018
Jin Boyang of China nearly runs into boards, falls on quad, but passes Nathan Chen for first. Jin has 297.77, Chen has 297.35. Canada's Patrick Chan up now.
— Helene Elliott (@helenenothelen) February 17, 2018
Read More
