Opt out or contact us anytime
At the memorial, Mr. Pence also met with four North Korean defectors, along with Fred Warmbier, the father of Otto F. Warmbier, the college student from Cincinnati who fell into an irreversible coma after being detained in Pyongyang, and died soon after being returned to his parents.
“It was important to be here today to sit with defectors who have escaped the most tyrannical regime on the planet and hear their stories, and see the tears in their eyes and also to see the aftermath of the militarism that was once again on display in Pyongyang yesterday with one more military parade,” Mr. Pence said. (He added, however, that he heartily supported Mr. Trump’s desire for a military parade on the streets of Washington.)
At the opening ceremony, White House officials said, Mr. Pence was keenly aware of the optics. They said that if he were ducking a meeting with the North Koreans, he could easily have moved to the box where the American delegation, including Mr. Warmbier, was seated. But that would have set up another resonant image: Mr. Moon in his box with Ms. Kim.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
While Mr. Pence chatted with his Japanese and South Korean counterparts, officials noted that the North Koreans sat by themselves, though Mr. Moon made a point of shaking hands with Ms. Kim.
Handshakes — or the lack thereof — have long played an outsize role in diplomacy. In 1954, a year after the end of the Korean War, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles refused to shake the hand of the Chinese premier, Zhou Enlai, at a conference in Geneva. For decades, Mr. Zhou nursed bitterness at the slight — a breach that was only fully healed when President Richard M. Nixon clasped his hand in Beijing in 1972.
Mr. Obama made an art of shaking hands with American rivals: Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi of Libya in 2009; Raúl Castro of Cuba in 2013, at the funeral of Nelson Mandela in South Africa. In 2013, however, Mr. Obama failed to shake hands with President Hassan Rouhani of Iran at the United Nations General Assembly, in a near miss that carried echoes of Mr. Pence’s nonencounter on Friday.
There had been feverish speculation about a meeting, fueled in part by the White House, which made it clear that Mr. Obama would be open to one, if he happened to bump into Mr. Rouhani. In the end, the Iranians balked, worried about the political fallout back home though a few days later, before leaving New York, Mr. Rouhani did telephone Mr. Obama.
Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Pence has one more chance for a history-making encounter, on Saturday. But his aides told reporters that they knew of no plans for a meeting.
A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: No Handshakes as Vice President Avoids Kim Jong-un’s Sister at Games. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
