WhatsApp
Gay Olympic skier Gus Kenworthy kisses his fellow USA Team Olympian Adam Rippon in a picture on Twitter
The 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, has barely even began but our gay Olympians are already making an important statement.
As a caption to the powerful picture, Gus Kenworthy writes “We’re here. We’re queer. Get used to it.”
The slogan dates back to Queer Nation and the HIV/AIDS activism of the early ’90s, and was famously rephrased by Jack on “Will&Grace”.
— Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) February 9, 2018
In a post on Instagram, Gus writes:
“The #OpeningCeremony is a wrap and the 2018 Winter Olympic Gaymes are officially under way!” he wrote. “I feel incredibly honored to be here in Korea competing for the US and I’m so proud to be representing the LGBTQ community alongside this amazing guy! Eat your heart out, Pence. #TeamUSA #TeamUSGay”
A post shared by gus kenworthy (@guskenworthy) on
Feb 9, 2018 at 7:29am PST
Adam Rippon, who will compete in the figure skating event in Pyeongchang, also recognizes the importance of this historic event. He writes on Twitter:
“Tonight I walked in the #OpeningCeremony and got to watch my old friend @Yunaaaa light the Olympic flame. Representing the USA is one of the greatest honors of my life and being able to do it as my authentic self makes it all so much sweeter.”
Tonight I walked in the #OpeningCeremony and got to watch my old friend @Yunaaaa light the Olympic flame. Representing the USA is one of the greatest honors of my life and being able to do it as my authentic self makes it all so much sweeter ️‍❤️ pic.twitter.com/ZypvWkUBjD
— Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) February 9, 2018
Hillary Clinton has already commented on the historic significance of this years openly gay athletes.
“I’m going to watch as much as I can see,” she said at the 2018 MAKERS Conference. “I love the Winter Olympics. I love the athleticism and the stories of our athletes, and I’m excited that Adam Rippon and Gus Kenworthy will be the first openly gay Olympians. So I’m going to be there cheering them on.”
On Monday, Gus stopped by “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” to discuss making history as an openly gay athlete in the Winter Olympics
Gus showed Ellen a picture of his battle wounds, even though some of us may have paid more attention to another body feature in the picture.
The handsome skier told Ellen that he is really excited about the upcoming Games, including meeting all the other athletes.
Them: What are you most excited for in Korea?
Me: Meeting the other athletes…  pic.twitter.com/fbC7v2rc0z
— Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) January 27, 2018
“It’s going to be a different experience than last time around because I’m not in the closet,” Kenworthy said. “I just want to meet as many athletes as I can, get to enjoy the opening and closing ceremonies, [and] hopefully ski the best I possibly can.”
But he also has some reservations about the politics involved, saying that anti-LGBT VP Mike Pence is “a bad fit” to lead the Winter Olympics delegation.
“To have somebody leading the delegation that [has] directly attacked the LGBTQ community … just seems like a bad fit,” he told Ellen. “I feel like the Olympics is all about inclusion and people coming together, and it seems like it’s not really doing that.”
Ellen also asked Gus about his shot for the ESPN Body issue, which has some amazing pictures of the hot skier:
Gus is the second openly gay American to secure a spot in this year’s Winter Olympics, after figure skater Adam Rippon
Gus ensured his place on the Olympic team with a second-place finish in the Men’s Freeski Slopestyle Finals at Mammoth Mountain in California.
That result, combined with a victory at a selection event, qualified him for the Olympic team.
Gus is the third openly gay male who will be competing in this year’s Olympic Games, alongside American figure skater Adam Rippon and Canadian pairs skater Eric Radford.
I'M GOING BACK TO THE OLYMPICS!!! pic.twitter.com/8Ys5p0PjOd
— Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) January 22, 2018
In an ad for Head & Shoulders, the hot skier is not only showing off his amazing freestyle skiing skills, but also his gay pride.
The 26-year old athlete told the Washington Post  that some of his fellow athletes refer to him as “The Gay Skier.”
“I’m definitely, like, ‘the gay skier’ now,” Gus said, “and that’s fine. I knew I was stepping into that role when I did it. I, in some ways, don’t care that that’s the label that sticks because I am the gay skier, and I know that I took the step to come out publicly and decided to wear that badge proudly.”
