Excitement At The Shoreline Over Three Madison Athletes In Winter Olympics
BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com
Olympic and American flags line Boston Post Road in Madison in support of the community's three winter olympians.
Olympic and American flags line Boston Post Road in Madison in support of the community's three winter olympians. (BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com)
Rebecca Lurye Contact Reporter
Residents of Madison like to say they’re at least 30 minutes from an ice rink and an hour from a hill — as unlikely a small, shoreline town as any to produce three winter Olympians.
As it turns out, Madison is far less shocked than awed at the success of aerial skiers and former classmates Mac Bohonnon and Kiley McKinnon and ice dancer Zachary Donohue. Each was born and raised in the town of 18,000 and will represent the country in the upcoming Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
The Madison Olympians have captured the imagination of a town best known by its summer contingent for crowded beaches and seaside cottages, but loved by locals for more family-centered traditions.
Winter weekends are spent skiing in Southington and Vermont; kids carpool to hockey practice at rinks in Northford, Hamden and Middletown; athletic endeavors of years past wallpaper the back of Tony’s Barber Shop, a downtown institution of the last 50 years.
The skill of Bohonnon, McKinnon and Donahue may be special, but to those in Madison, their commitment feels all too familiar.
“It’s our dedication on steroids,” said Lisa Deane, who owns Brother Mike’s Restaurant, tucked into a dead-end road off I-95.
At one end of her bar hangs a photo of her youngest son, playing hockey in Hand-Madison High School’s black and gold. At the other end — past miniature American flags sprouting from flower arrangements — hang glossy portraits of the town’s new local legends.
Brad Horrigan / Hartford Courant
The town of Madison has rallied around its three winter olympic athletes. Brother Mike's restaurant has photos of Kiley McKinnon, Mac Bohonnon and Zach Donohue near the bar. Photo by BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com
The town of Madison has rallied around its three winter olympic athletes. Brother Mike's restaurant has photos of Kiley McKinnon, Mac Bohonnon and Zach Donohue near the bar. Photo by BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com (Brad Horrigan / Hartford Courant)
“It’s such a positive thing,” said Debbie McGuire of Branford, a regular at Brother Mike’s. “It’s wonderful. Three people from one little town. One little beautiful town.”
As bells tolled from nearby St. Margaret’s Church on the corner of Academy Street, Deane made the rounds to hand out freshly printed specials — Olympic onion rings, Kiley’s Krispy Coconut Shrimp, The Bohonnon lobster “Mac” and cheese, and The Dancing Donahue ahi tuna sliders.
They’re plays on the kids’ names and, she admits, a bit of a stretch.
“Should we do an Olympic martini or would that be sacrilegious?” Deane asked McGuire.
“Why would it be?” she wondered.
“I don’t know. Olympics? Alcohol?” Deane asked before cracking a smile. “No, we’re going to.”
A half mile away in Madison Center, the town’s main drag, Olympic spirit was on full display.
2018 Winter Olympics . There’s two members of the luge team, two snowboarders, two aerial skiers who happen to both be from Madison, an ice dancer and a hockey player.
But that’s not where the...
Eight athletes from Connecticut will be among the more than 200 competing for the United States at the 2018 Winter Olympics . There’s two members of the luge team, two snowboarders, two aerial skiers who happen to both be from Madison, an ice dancer and a hockey player.
But that’s not where the...
(Lori Riley)
The five rings winked out from flags on every lamp post and storefronts of banks and boutiques, even the dressing room of upscale clothing store Khaki & Black. Posters advertise a Saturday celebration in front of the Madison Post Office, where fans can take selfies with life-size cutouts of the athletes.
Paper rings hang in the window of Creations, a gift shop that supports a local disabilities services organization. Manager Lisa Allen stocked up on signs that spell “SKI” from old license plate letters
At bellaPerlina, three mannequins wear red, white and blue shirts that scream “USA” from the front and “Madison, CT” down one arm — designed for the shop by Coastal Crab CT.
“There’s a lot of pride. I just think it’s really exciting,” said Katy Wallace, who works at Post Road Press. “To have this tiny little sleepy town have three amazing athletes come out of it is really cool.”
While aerial skier Bohonnon went to the Olympic Winter Games in 2014, many in the town didn’t know until they saw his hometown splashed across their TV screens. The town declared Feb. 17 “Mac Bohonnon Day” upon his return from a fifth-place finish.
This time around, Connecticut boasts more than a dozen Olympic athletes, including lugers from Suffield and Ridgefield, snowboarders from Roxbury and Westport, a hockey player from Milford, another who coaches the Yale hockey team, and more hockey players who played for Yale and the Hartford Wolf Pack .
Brad Horrigan / Hartford Courant
Olympic spirit is on full display in the shop window of Creations boutique on Boston Post Road. Photo by BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com
Olympic spirit is on full display in the shop window of Creations boutique on Boston Post Road. Photo by BRAD HORRIGAN | bradhorrigancourant.com (Brad Horrigan / Hartford Courant)
Last week, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy offered his congratulations to those athletes.
“We are incredibly proud to have a group of talented, powerful, and determined athletes from Connecticut representing our nation on an international stage in one of the most prominent sporting events in the world,”  Malloy said. “Although the games might be taking place on the other side of the globe, you can bet that there will be a vocal contingent of supporters in Connecticut cheering on our hometown stars. We congratulate all of the athletes on their impressive accomplishments and wish them the best of luck in the coming days.”
With such a strong contingent from Madison, the town has been buzzing for weeks, residents said.
“This is a big sports town. They take it very seriously here,” said Tony Cavallaro, who handed out Most Valuable Player awards to Hand athletes from the 1960s to ’80s. The yellowed pictures still grace one wall of his barber shop.
Watching the Olympic flags fly outside, Cavallaro said he was glad there’s still recognition in the town for its very best.
“It’s a nice idea,” he said. “To go to the Olympics, it’s an honor.”
Down the road at Head Start Barber Shop, Clinton resident Zachary Posner chatted with his own haircutter, Frank Proto, about the Games.
Both had good reason to be excited.
Posner, an alpine skier, was one of three Connecticut residents to compete in the 2013 Special Olympics in Pyeongchang. Proto cuts 22-year-old Bohonnon’s hair.
“As good a ski jumper as he is, it just blows me away how good he can do,” said Posner, who added he’s equally impressed by McKinnon.
In 2015, Posner helped carry the torch through New Haven on its cross-country journey to the Special Olympics Summer Games in Los Angeles. Now, he’s happy to see the Olympic rings fly in his home state.
“It’s a really good vibe,” Posner said. “Basically, the whole town can actually be a part of it.”
For Proto, the real excitement will wait until the athletes compete next week — McKinnon on Feb. 15, Bohonnon on Feb. 17 and Donahue on Feb. 18.
His walls are decorated with sports memorabilia from some of the greats — Nolan Ryan, Yogi Berra, and Ted Williams; Fran Tarkenton; Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Scottie Pippen.
It’s probably time, he said, to ask for Bohonnon’s signature next time he stops in for a cut.
“I’m in awe of it. To think someone grew up in a town like this and I knew him since he was a kid,” Proto said. “That’s what you get when you have commitment, right?”
