More: Go behind the scenes at the 2018 Winter Olympics Athletes Village
While far from the smoothest relationship, the connection between snowboarding and the Olympics has altered both irrevocably — and mostly for the better. As the sport looks toward Pyeongchang, which marks snowboarding’s 20th anniversary in the Games, the following oral history details its journey from outcasts to Olympic darling.
Contentious beginnings
Snowboarding’s introduction didn’t come without a fight. Burton Snowboards lead a lawsuit against the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Association over the criteria by which the U.S. team would be chosen.
On an international level, snowboarders resisted governance by skiers. The International Olympic Committee recognized the International Ski Federation (FIS) as the sport’s governing body instead of the International Snowboard Federation (ISF), which was favored by riders and the industry.
That led Norwegian Terje Haakonsen, a three-time world champion and the sport’s top rider, to boycott the Nagano Games.
Burton Snowboards founder Jake Burton Carpenter: “I wouldn’t say it hadn’t crossed our mind, but it wasn’t like we were busting to get in there.”
Snowboarder Magazine creative director Pat Bridges: “They didn’t come to snowboarding and welcome snowboarding for the betterment of snowboarding. They welcomed it for the betterment of the Olympics.”
X Games vice president Tim Reed: “The U.S. Open was kind of taking place, but then X Games coming along and giving at that point a much wider platform, bigger audience and really a lot more opportunities for snowboarders to make a living and all the associated industries around it, it provided another good push for the growth to happen. And then clearly the Olympics in ’98 provided yet another push.”
Olympic bronze medalist JJ Thomas: “It was kind of the boom of snowboarding and action sports in the sense where X Games got into it and there was new companies being launched every month. Money was just pouring in. It was like the bitcoin of now. People were like snowboarding, action sports, they were crazy about it.”
Olympian Todd Richards: “Snowboarding had already kind of been in the public eye through the X Games. To ESPN’s credit, they did a really good job of building us up as hero athletes. But I think going into ’98, we were still seen as dope smoking, fledgling kind of weird pseudo sport.”
FIS President Gian Franco Kasper: “It has a program or a part of it for young people, and that was very necessary for the Olympic idea that the young sports or the sports of today’s youngsters are included.”
Thomas: “Snowboarding was on such a high and it was riding such a wave of inertia that … we were just like, wow, OK, here we go. And it was just a matter of whether you wanted to jump on board or not.”
Snowboarder Terje Haakonsen: “I was getting forced to do ski federation contests. At the same time, it’s like why isn’t the ISF in this? They’re the ones who built up the sport. They’re the ones who stood for everything. Why should the ski federation come in and take over that thing that they didn’t even really like, that actually they’ve been trying to put down?”
Richards: “We all thought this was going to be the giant legitimacy stamp that snowboarding so very much wanted/needed.”
Haakonsen: “I understand a lot of athletes who want to go and make a career because if you do good, you will have a career. … But I don’t understand why they’re sitting on their knees while doing it. Why get dictated by people who don’t do sports?”
Bridges: “We all speculate that it was probably the best move he ever made in his career was boycotting the Olympics. The upside for him was minimal, and he put an asterisk on those Olympics.”
Growing pains in Nagano
Nagano organizers rushed to accommodate the new sport. Halfpipe and giant slalom were added for men and women. The Japanese resort hosting the events had to make an exception to its policy because it did not allow snowboarding.
That it didn’t go smoothly was no secret. Canadian Ross Rebagliati won gold in giant slalom before having his medal temporarily stripped for testing positive for marijuana. The Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled the IOC could not take Rebagliati’s medal because it did not have an agreement with FIS about the drug.
Richards: “’98 was kind of like, we were guinea pigs. … When they ran our event in ’98, every other outdoor event the day that they ran our halfpipe competition was canceled because of inclement weather. We competed in a pouring rainstorm. Not like mellow rain. It was pouring.”
Kasper: “From a competitive point of view, Nagano was fine. … We are out there in nature and weather plays a role.”
Carpenter: “They spelled the name wrong (sno-boarding) and we had the halfpipe in a driving rainstorm. It was sort of a rocky start.”
Olympian Barrett Christy: “I remember dropping into the pipe and hearing them announce me as Christy Barrett, which wasn’t my name. … I was like, ‘I made it to the Olympics. I’m supposed to have made it,’ and they didn’t get that right.”
Olympic silver medalist Gretchen Bleiler: “At that first Olympics, snowboarding was not respected in the Olympics at all. And then it didn’t help that Ross Rebagliati tested positive for weed, because that further instilled the fact that snowboarders were weed-smoking punks.”
Bridges: “It was barely on American television. There was more coverage of Ross Rebagliati failing his drug test than there was on any single athletic accomplishment, tenfold.”
Snowsport Industries America president Nick Sargent: “It was just like nothing came together. It just felt like, here’s the first entry of snowboarding and just go away and we’ll handle the big Alpine events in a nice resort in Hakuba. Snowboarding, go over here and we’ll give you 10 guys to dig the halfpipe and we’ll call it good.”
U.S. Olympic Committee chief of sport performance Alan Ashley, a former U.S. Ski & Snowboard vice president: “There were some growing pains there. I think everybody’s kind of feeling their way along a little bit and learned a lot from Nagano.”
A turning point in 2002
That showed four years later in Salt Lake City, with snowboarding taking center stage in the country where it was invented in the 1960s.
In front of thousands of American fans, 18-year-old Kelly Clark won the country’s first gold medal of the Games. A day later, Ross Powers, Danny Kass and JJ Thomas swept the men’s halfpipe.
Kasper: “The organizers were more experienced. We were more experienced.”
Richards: “It’s the most beautiful day Utah could ever experience. The pipe was perfect. … It had a perfect venue. It was in the United States, and there’s a million people that love snowboarding. That was what I look at as the coming of age of snowboarding at the Olympics.”
Olympian Tricia Byrnes: “I grew up in snowboarding where you weren’t even allowed on the mountain. … And then to walk into the stadium and they’re like, ‘Right this way, snowboarders,’ it was like mind-blowing.”
Olympic gold medalist Kelly Clark: “Almost overnight, it was just an invitation to the sport of snowboarding that I don’t think America had really seen before.”
Bridges: “The fact that Ross Powers did have a seemingly miraculous run and had a huge air on the first hit that everybody could respect and acknowledge and take pride in, it was like a perfect storm on that Olympics to be the exact opposite of what Nagano was.”
Thomas: “The minute we went 1-2-3, I remember everything changed. I really felt like that was the first time the world saw halfpipe competitive snowboarding.”
Ross Powers, also a Nagano bronze medalist: “It was hard to even go to the grocery store or go anywhere without everyone around wanting to congratulate you, which is amazing and great feeling but it was hard to do normal things in life, which I had never experienced on that level before. I won a lot of big events before the Olympics … but nothing as big as the Olympics for sure.”
Byrnes: “We just brought a different camaraderie and energy that I didn’t feel like the Olympics had seen and I thought the people watching got to see this new thing where it’s like we’re rooting for the Norwegians and we’re more of a community versus battling out of nations.”
Starring Shaun White
Asked after the 2002 Games if snowboarding had been added to help the Americans, then-IOC president Jacques Rogge told Newsweek it was added “to spark popularity with young people.”
It did that, but that Americans were successful was unavoidable.
Snowboardcross was added in 2006, with Seth Wescott winning his first of two consecutive golds and Lindsey Jacobellis taking silver after losing a huge lead performing a trick on the final jump.
In the halfpipe, Hannah Teter won gold and Gretchen Bleiler silver. But it was Shaun White, a 19-year-old with big tricks to match his charisma, that changed the Games.
Lindsey Jacobellis: “I got more negative press on that, where a normal medal probably would have just gotten regular attention and maybe other things that would have come with it. But that’s not how the world received me.”
Richards: “The U.S. was the birthplace of freestyle in sport so of course the roots are a little deeper here. That takes nothing away from talent pool of the world, but it just seems the U.S. has done a way better job of marketing, pushing the victories that we’ve had in snowboarding.”
Bridges: “In Italy, Shaun was still more of a traditional snowboarding icon, and by the time Vancouver happened, he was in a different stratosphere.”
White: “I would say I’ve been to plenty of X Games where I had to ride so much harder than I did at maybe my first Olympics or my second Olympics, but it just carried so much more weight having that Olympic title rather than something that was in the sport that people didn’t understand. It just brought a lot of legitimacy to my career, I felt like, in the masses.”
Snowboard sport organizer and course designer for the X Games Chris Gunnarson: “When Shaun became a household name through both Olympics and X Games, I think at that point we started to see the old way of bemoaning that fact that skiing had really taken over and run snowboarding and that sucks, it’s kind of like, you know what, the sport has grown up. We’ve got a major icon.”
Carpenter: “He is the consummate professional and very dedicated to his craft. That had a huge impact. And just him going that big and that technical. Then the whole celebrity thing — how did that happen? How does a snowboarder get on the cover of Rolling Stone twice?”
Bridges: “He was somebody who people who follow stick-and-ball sports could respect. They can’t necessarily relate to snowboarders, but all of the sudden they can maybe relate to the gold medal but they … could relate to somebody having his own TV commercials for American Express. They can sit there and say every single checkout counter I go to, I see Shaun White’s face on a pack of gum.”
IOC sports director Kit McConnell: “By him participating in the Olympic Games, winning medals, promoting the Olympic involvement back into the community gives it real credibility. At the same time, there’s no doubt I think his profile has grown by the platform that the Olympic Games allows him. Again, that combination is something magic.”
Growing pains in Vancouver
To be sure, snowboarding helped bring viewers. The night White won the halfpipe in Vancouver, NBC’s programming of that contest, Alpine skier Lindsey Vonn winning downhill gold and speedskater Shani Davis winning the 1,000 meters topped American Idol, which hadn’t lost a ratings battle in six years.
But success didn’t mean smooth sailing.
With warm weather at the Vancouver and Sochi Olympics, organizers rushed to get the halfpipes together with varying degrees of success.
Sargent: “We went to Vancouver and it was a disappointment because there was so much momentum and it’s not that the Canadians weren’t stoked, but it was just the weather and the venue. I remember they had hay bales under the halfpipe where they built snow around it. And it was so soft.”
Bridges: “If it was the pinnacle of the sport, then they wouldn’t build shitty halfpipes.”
Carpenter: “When Shaun won in Vancouver and then he did that double cork in his victory lap, for him to do a double cork in that, there was exposed plywood in the halfpipe. For him to do that was one of the bigger athletic accomplishments I’ve ever seen.”
Gunnarson: “There’s so much more bureaucracy involved. The host country, the venue selections, the bidding processes, the really rigid criteria that gets created in every aspect of the Olympics that it seems to make it harder for them to have the best courses. I think there’s also been some bad luck, too.”
Epilogue: Making the Olympics cool
Burton estimates the average retail price of a full setup to be $1,000, and the sport took a large hit during the recession starting in 2008.
While no longer on a straight upward trajectory that it was during the 1980s and ’90s, snowboarding finds itself bigger than ever before.
Snowsport Industries America estimated 3.7 million people participated in snowboarding
in 1996, according to media reports. SIA’s data show more than 7.5 million participants in the 2016-17 season.
In the Games, slopestyle was added in Sochi and snowboard big air will be contested for the first time in Pyeongchang. The sport’s inclusion led the way for freeskiing to join with halfpipe and slopestyle contests in 2014.
The events will give the United States a chance to build on its 24 snowboarding medals, a total double that of the next closest country.
U.S. Snowboarding and U.S. Freeskiing director Jeremy Forster: “That’s been a major effort of ours over the last 10 plus years to keep growing the Olympic opportunity for the sport and the athletes.”
McConnell: “There’s a natural link between the two, and maybe if some of the snowboarding events hadn’t come in in the first place, wouldn’t have created the pathway for the freestyle (skiing) events in the same venues to follow.”
Gunnarson: “Slopestyle is truly the most reflective of where the sport is today, of what people will go and do recreationally, and that’s why I think it’s the most relatable.”
U.S. Snowboarding head coach Peter Foley: “In the test events that we’ve done in Korea, the venues have been really good. … There’s potential for really, really good performances in boardercross, halfpipe and slopestyle, for sure.”
McConnell: “It’s allowed us to develop a different feel around the Olympic program, balancing the tradition with really these more youth-focused events. … Undoubtedly I think that the Olympic involvement has added to the global development and promotion of the sport itself. I think the inclusion has really benefited snowboarding and continues to do so, as you see from the increased number of events we have in Pyeongchang.”
Richards, who is now a TV analyst: “I know for a fact working for NBC that they’re looking at this and they want more snowboarding on TV, as much snowboarding as we can get, and it’s because people want to see it.”
Carpenter: “I think obviously they felt very threatened by the X Games. I don’t think that their putting snowboarding in the Olympics was out of the kindness of their heart. It was more of a move to attract a younger audience. I think we have given them that.”
Jacobellis: “I think it’s gained a little bit more respect. Most people just thought that snowboarders might just be little punks that are cruising around on the mountain and it doesn’t really take much skill. It’s extremely physically demanding and we put a lot of time into the gym.”
Bridges: “Snowboarding certainly gained legitimacy, there’s no question there. But did snowboarding lose its edge? Yeah. A lot of people romanticize about the days when it was us against them, when we were the barbarians at the gate, where you felt naughty. It was like taboo. You were a snowboarder. You were a rebel. … It’s lost all that.”
Bleiler: “What snowboarding has always had and the Olympics has not touched is that spirit, that original spirit of creativity and athletes standing up and having a voice and being innovative. But I guess what the Olympics has done is provided a platform for that spirit, and that’s what I see as being a really positive thing.”
U.S. Ski & Snowboard CEO Tiger Shaw: “It’s extraordinary that a sport that is that new and that different has clawed its way up and become an Olympic sport and one that’s now an anchor of the Games.”
White: “It just took a sport that was slightly misunderstood and brought it to the limelight and brought it to the masses.”
Byrnes: “Snowboarding has made the Olympics cool. And freeskiing has backed it up. It’s young and hip and counterculture. They put a twist on what it means to be an Olympian and a gold medalist."
 
