FEB. 5, 2018
PY18-DIGITAL-Logos-FINAL
We’re introducing augmented reality, a new approach to digital storytelling. Read about how to use it on your phone or tablet here . If you want to skip it for now, you can view an alternate immersive experience instead .
We’re introducing augmented reality, a new approach to digital storytelling. Read about how to use it on your phone or tablet here .
Despite all the camera angles and slow-motion technology, watching sports on television is rarely just right. It can be numbing, more hypnotizing than intoxicating, to be passively cocooned on the couch as a mere spectator to miniaturized athletes squeezed through a two-dimensional plane. Television sands off the edges and scale of what makes the games so different from seeing them up close.
In person, the Olympics are all about speed, height and consequence, especially in winter. They are about flinging a body out of control in the hope and expectation that it can be contained and transformed into something beautiful — a quadruple jump on the ice, a hard lean in the short-track rink or a burst of flight off an icy ramp. For all their foibles, all their crassness and commercialism, the Olympics can still amaze in these moments, strung together into something fluid.
George Knowles for The New York Times
Consider Nathan Chen , 18, an American figure skater. He became the first to land four quadruple jumps in a program — and last year pushed it to five. In January, he routed the competition at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships with five quadruple jumps (four 360-degree spins, in the air) and firmly established himself as a gold-medal contender at the Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
“I’m capable of doing quads just based off the way my body’s built, the way my muscles react,” Chen said. “I have pretty quick-twitch fibers so I’m able to rotate really quickly. I’m able to spring off the ground really easily.”
Chen’s quadruple jump takes less than a second — too fast to be appreciated. Chen’s rotation makes him nothing but a blur to the naked eye — unless you stop him, mid-air, for a closer look.
CONTINUE READING ARTICLE
From this view, you can see Chen’s arms and legs are tight to his axis of rotation, which helps him spin faster than 400 r.p.m.
His quad jump covers nearly eight feet, and he is in the air for about half a second.
Looking at his skates up close, you can see that he is nearly 20 inches off the ice at his highest point.
While Chen’s quadruple jumps can reach 20 inches high, speed in short-track speedskating stays with those who lean exceptionally low.
Short-track speedskating, scheduled for prime time in South Korea, is wildly popular in the host country. It promises to be a premier event. (Figure skating will take place mostly in the mornings local time, for prime time in the United States.)
The United States, long a rival to South Korea in short track, is in a rebuilding phase. Gone are the medal-racking days of Apolo Anton Ohno. But amid a group of up-and-comers, like the sprint specialist Maame Biney , 18, is a stalwart of the team, J.R. Celski , a three-time medalist making his third appearance at the Olympics.
At 5 feet 8 inches, Celski, 27, is lean in his upper body and thick in the thighs, like most others in his sport. But what makes short-track speedskating truly unique (and different from its long-track cousin) is how low and left the athletes are for most of the competition.
Their fingers often graze the ice for balance as they teeter on the edges of razor-sharp blades while traveling 30 miles per hour or more. Finding a vantage point right next to Celski is one way to appreciate just how low the skaters get and how far they lean through the corners, fighting off the physics of centrifugal force.
“Down here, this is the angle you want,” the U.S. short-track head coach, Anthony Barthell said, walking around Celski’s frozen-in-place form. “Right skate, knee, hip, shoulder — you want that coming that way. Let’s say he drops his right knee in, then he starts creating angles and losing pressure. Straight lines for us is going to give us more pressure on the ice, and that’s going to generate more speed.”
CONTINUE READING ARTICLE
From here, you can see the severe angle of Celski’s turns, critical for maintaining his speed and direction.
Notice that the razor-sharp blades on his skate are offset so the boot does not hit the ice when he is leaning over.
Look closely at the glove on his left hand. He has plastic caps on his fingertips to protect them during turns.
Short-track speedskating and hockey might not have a lot of similarities, but both have a focus on angles, and no one is more concerned with angles than a hockey goalie.
With the National Hockey League sitting out the Olympics, the women’s game may finally get equal billing to the men’s event, and the United States is looking for its first gold medal since 1998. A key to success lies with Alex Rigsby, a 26-year-old goalie who has backstopped the United States to four world championships.
Every goalie depends on fast reflexes and rubberlike flexibility, but a pair of hip surgeries early in her college career nearly ended Rigsby’s hopes of big-time hockey. During rehabilitation, she had to relearn how to walk, then skate. The act of throwing her body into the acrobatic positions necessary to protect the net was the final, frightening step.
Nearly seven years later, after being left off the 2014 Olympic team, it is her turn to throw her body in front of all the screaming pucks headed toward the American net.
She might drop into the goalie’s version of the butterfly, keeping her knees together and splaying her feet outward. Or she might fall to her side in a blink, stacking her thick leg pads horizontally and using her 5-foot-7 height to cover most of the six-foot-wide goal mouth.
Pausing her in place shows how much space she fills, including her open gloved hand, as she tries to cut down all the shooting angles that opponents try to exploit.
Goaltending, Rigsby said, is “a sport within a sport.”
“It is a position not many people understand, and you always have to bring your best,” she told NBC last year. “If you make a mistake, a red light goes on and a number pops up on the scoreboard. I think what separates good from great goalies in the end is how tough you are between the ears.”
CONTINUE READING ARTICLE
Looking from the front, notice Rigsby has stacked her pads to cover as much net as possible.
She has opened her glove as wide as possible to increase its coverage area and make the save.
Here we are looking from her point of view. Shots in her direction can exceed 70 m.p.h.
A hockey goalie is the rare Olympic athlete who does not move far to perform, but other athletes fly through the air as if launched from a cannon, their bodies twisting and traveling long distances with the hope of a safe landing.
Anna Gasser, a 26-year-old Austrian, has been one of the top snowboarders in slopestyle and big-air competitions for years, unafraid to throw herself 30 feet high and to fly twice that far.
She led the inaugural Olympic slopestyle competition at the 2014 Games, finishing 10th. But over the past year, she has cemented her status as a rare double-threat: an Olympic favorite in both slopestyle (featuring a series of obstacles and jumps) and big air (featuring one big jump).
George Knowles for The New York Times
Using her background as a competitive gymnast (she says she quit at age 15), Gasser has dialed in a few dizzying tricks, like the backside double-cork 1080, a side-winding kaleidoscope of three spins and two flips. Success depends largely on the launch, halted here in place, as Gasser torques her body, generating energy the way a top does as the string is pulled.
CONTINUE READING ARTICLE
Gasser’s signature trick is a spectacular display of three rotations and two flips. Here, she’s winding up, generating all the energy she’ll need for the trick.
She snaps her head and shoulders in the direction of her spin. The faster she can throw her shoulder, the faster she will spin.
This is her full flight path. She will travel a distance of about 60 feet.
Gasser may have outgrown her early gymnastic ambitions, but at 5-foot-5, she retains the small, powerful body to propel herself into the sky, and the air awareness to regain control and stick the landing.
“You have to act so fast in the air, especially if your takeoff goes wrong,” Gasser said. “I’m pretty good at stopping my rotation at any point, so if I start too fast, I can open up. I think that’s what I learned in gymnastics, and what helps me so much now.”
Gasser will have plenty of competition, from the likes of American Jamie Anderson, the slopestyle gold medalist at the 2014 Winter Games. They are among the thousands of Olympians, from nearly 100 countries, who will compete this time around in South Korea.
Every day will bring millions of moments in motion. Fans who are snug and warm at home, watching on TV, may want to freeze frame on some of that action, to see it up close. And now they can.
To create the augmented reality scenes, each athlete was scanned three-dimensionally in a static pose, a process that includes photography. The model was then repositioned and edited.
Production by Jon Huang, Blacki Migliozzi, David Stolarsky, Ben Wilhelm and Tom Giratikanon. AR experience design and production by Evan Grothjan, Graham Roberts, Miles Peyton, Yuliya Parshina-Kottas, Karthik Patanjali, Bedel Saget and Joe Ward. Design by Gray Beltran, Lian Chang, Rebecca Lieberman and Rumsey Taylor.
Additional production by Adam Pearce.
Augmented Reality: How We’ll Bring the News Into Your Home
Production by Jon Huang, Blacki Migliozzi, David Stolarsky, Ben Wilhelm and Tom Giratikanon. AR experience design and production by Evan Grothjan, Graham Roberts, Miles Peyton, Yuliya Parshina-Kottas, Karthik Patanjali, Bedel Saget and Joe Ward. Design by Gray Beltran, Lian Chang, Rebecca Lieberman and Rumsey Taylor.
Additional production by K.K. Rebecca Lai and Adam Pearce.
