U.S. hockey team will play Winter Olympics for the late GM Jim Johannson
Kevin Allen  |  USA TODAY Sports
GANGNEUNG, Korea — U.S. Olympic men’s hockey coach Tony Granato fought back tears Friday when he talked to players about how they will deal with U.S. general manager Jim Johannson’s stunning death 19 days ago.
“We addressed that the reason we are all in this room is the person who is not here with us,” Granato said, minutes after his emotional speech to his players.
Before Friday’s first U.S. practice, a Johannson memorial stall was set-up in the dressing room. A Johannson jersey will hang there before and during every American game.
“It’s the first locker that you see,” U.S. defenseman James Wisniewski said. “It brings back all of the memories.”
Johannson, who died in his sleep at 53, had the final say on every coach and player on the roster because no one knew more about the American player and coaching pool than he did.
“I remember how excited he was to call us and tell us we were on the Olympic team,” said Wisniewski, a former NHLer now playing in Germany. “He was prouder of us than we were of ourselves.”
More: U.S. hockey team will play Winter Olympics for the late GM Jim Johannson
Signs with a “JJ” logo now adorn the dressing room walls. T-shirts with the logo were given to players, and No. 24 has been sewn into the necks of their jerseys because that’s the number Johannson wore the last time he represented USA as a player in 1992. The actual jerseys Johannson wore in 1992 is with Granato for this tournament. 
Granato showed the media a “JJ” embossed poker chip, created by U.S. National Junior coach Bob Motzko. It has “USA Hockey” printed on the other side.
USA Hockey has put together a book of stories written about Johannson for players to read.
“We are doing lots of things,” Granato said.
The majority of the players on the team are Americans who play in European Leagues, and some of those players have indicated they felt as if Johannson was the only person in America keeping track of them.
“JJ cared about the person you were first,” said U.S. defenseman Jon Blum, an ex-NHLer who has played in Russia for three seasons. “During the season, he was always calling to see how you were doing personally. Hockey talk was second.”
Although Johannson often had to cut players, he was known as a player’s general manager.
“You get some GMs that kind of think like you're just a piece of meat and what can you do for them,” Blum said.  "But JJ genuinely cared about the person you were first and your family, and that goes a long way.”
When the NHL decided not to make players available for the 2018 Olympics, Johannson said the Americans had plenty of “damn good” hockey players on European teams.
He predicted Olympic fans would become as fascinated with the “25 unique stories” as they would be by NHL players.
“He was just so enjoyable to be around,” said Boston University winger Jordan Greenway, the first African American to play for the U.S. Men’s Olympic hockey team. “He put his whole heart and soul into this team.”
Blum said he was “devastated” by the news of Johannson’s death.
“He believed in everyone he picked,” Blum said.
Granato played with Johannson at Wisconsin and on the 1988 U.S. Olympic team.
“On this team, he was the general manager and I was the coach,” Granato said. “We had some kind of communication every day through emails, phone calls, I chats, texts. Since he’s been gone, I’m waiting for that call every day.”
Dave Fischer, USA Hockey’s Senior Director of Communications, said Johannson will be missed on so many different levels.
“There were so many things that he did for our organization that no one had any idea about,” Fischer said.
Blum said what gnaws at him is the fact that Johannson leaves behind a two-year-old daughter named Ellie.
“I have son who is four and I can’t imagine leaving him behind,” Blum said. “This is a very tough situation. This one is for him for sure.”
 
