Olympic aid: Dover grad Chris Mizer helps USA ice hockey squad be at its best
Thursday
Feb 8, 2018 at 6:20 AM
Lee Morrison TimesReporter.com staff writer   @lmorrisonTR
Personally Chris Mizer admits to being "an awful skater," but his athletic training skills earned him a spot on the medical staff for the United States Men's Ice Hockey Team in the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
The opening ceremonies begin Friday, and the the first hockey match for the Americans is against Sloevnia on Feb. 14.
This will be Mizer's first trip to the Olympics.
"It's a once in a lifetime experience -- it's kind of hard to put into words," the 1987 graduate of Dover High School said. "My whole life growing up, I watched the Olympics. Now, to be a part of it, and also to be a part of it with USA Hockey is special to me. It's really exciting."
One of his favorite childhood memories is of watching the USA hockey team winning the semifinals and then the gold medal at the Olympics in Lake Placid, N.Y. That was the famous 1980 team that beat the Soviet Union 4-3 Feb. 22 in the semifinals and knocked off Finland 4-2 two days later for the gold medal. As many Americans do, he recalls hearing broadcaster Al Michaels proclaim "Do you believe in miracles?" when the team beat the powerful Soviets. One of the vivid images from that Olympics was goalie Jim Craig draped in the American flag.
Mizer said he earned his place on the Olympics staff through his past work with USA Hockey. When the National Hockey League decided last spring not to go to the Olympics, he talked with administrators for USA Hockey to let them know he was interested in going, and he was selected to go.
The staff is comprised of two athletic trainers, one massage therapist, one orthopedic surgeon, and two equipment managers.
"That's a larger staff than usual, because of the size of the team and the nature of the beast," he said of the 25-man roster.
Mizer obtained his bachelor's degree in exercise science and athletic training in 1991 from Ohio State University, followed by his master's degree in allied health management in 1994.
As a student athletic trainer, he was assigned to the Ohio State men’s hockey team. He went on to become the head athletic trainer for the Columbus Blue Jackets of the National Hockey League from 2000-2008.
In 2016, he was the athletic trainer for Team USA at the Youth Olympic Games.
Currently, Mizer is the associate director of sports medicine rehabilitation at Ohio State's Wexner Medical Center, where he has worked for the past eight years. He helps part of the sports medicine program with physical therapy services, physician services and outreach services.
Hockey is "absolutely" Mizer's favorite sport, even though he only took to the ice of a pond while in high school. He also played some intramural sports at Ohio State University.
At the Olympics, he will focus on keeping the players healthy before and after each match.
"That involves anything from a medical standpoint that players need: treating injuries before practices or games, preparing them for games, taping, stretching -- whatever it takes -- treating injuries to aid a speedy recovery. After practices or games, it's treating injuries, and the same type of soft tissue work to aid in their speedy recovery."
Mizer left Sunday and expects to return home Feb. 26.
He said that going to South Korea includes cultural orientation.
"The United States Olympic Committee has provided a lot of information about all the things we need to know leading up to the games," he said. "USA Hockey does a tremendous job of supplementing that information. I've never been to Asia, so this will be a first. I've been very fortunate to have traveled to other parts of the world for work. That has exposed me to other cultures, but this will be the first time in this part of the world for me. It's a privilege and an honor to be associated with USA Hockey, with so many great people involved, and to be a part of the medical team and the group going over to represent the United States. It's going to be a lot of fun."
While with the Blue Jackets, Mizer sometimes had to put on skates and take to the ice during a player's rehabilitation.
"I'm an awful skater, but you had to do it to work with the guys during rehab to get them back," he said.
Asked if he is concerned about going to South Korea when the North Korea situation is so potentially volatile, Mizer said, "I haven't really thought a whole lot about it to be honest. I think it's such a world celebration, it's just an opportunity for the world to celebrate."
Never miss a story
Choose the plan that's right for you.
Digital access or digital and print delivery.
