Winter Olympics 2018: 8 Best Uniforms From the Opening Ceremony
By Liz Calvario‍
6:48 PM PST, February 9, 2018
Ryan Pierse/Getty Images
The 2018 Winter Olympics kicked off in style at PyeongChang Olympic Stadium in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea, on Friday. While the Parade of Nations at the Summer Olympics features bright and elaborate uniforms, the freezing temperatures for the Winter Games meant big coats, beanies and boots.
There were still a handful of countries that stood out from the rest. Whether it was a poncho, metallic tone or sleek all-black ensemble, these are the eight uniforms that caught our eye.
USA
The Ralph Lauren-designed sportswear included a red-white and blue jacket with blue beanies with U.S.A. written in white and blue jeans. What made these uniforms stand out was the knitted sweater and the suede gloves with fringes.
Ryan Pierse/Getty Images
Ryan Pierse/Getty Images
Norway
Among the colors that standout during the Parade of Nations are red, white and blue. This country gets a shout-out as the best use of the three colors in their uniforms.
David J. Phillip/Getty Images
New Zealand
The athletes for this country get the award for chicest uniforms for their all-black attire. The flag bearer also gave us Game of Thrones/Jon Snow vibes, and we dig it!
Ronald Martinez/Getty Images
Argentina
The South American country gets points for looking the sleekest and most put together in their navy and white ensembles and heather blue beanie with a pom-pom on top.
Ronald Martinez/Getty Images
Canada
The Canadian team was easy to spot with their bright red coats and their most widely recognized national symbol, maple leaf, proudly shown on the back of their jackets.
Jamie Squire/Getty Images
Nigeria
The white with green uniforms added a nice touch of color and subtlety. Their green hats with silver detailing added a flashy element to the overall look.
Quinn Rooney/Getty Images
Colombia
Points for the South American team's uniforms for their fun fedoras and even better cream-colored ponchos.
Ronald Martinez/Getty Images
Australia
The country Down Under stood out by wearing different colors than their flag. The Olympians proudly walked in teal snow pants and a silver puffer jackets with lime green trimming.
Dan Istitene/Getty Images
Last but not least, a special shout-out goes to Tonga flag bearer Pita Taufatofua, who once again treated the world with his shirtless presence.
Taufatofua shot to fame during the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro when he also walked shirtless and oiled-up at the opening ceremony in Brazil. For these Winter Games, he is competing in cross-country skiing.
Lars Baron/Getty Images
The 2018 Winter Olympics run through Sunday, Feb. 25 and are broadcast on NBC.
RELATED CONTENT:
