Oversight Committee says it will investigate USOC, USA Gymnastics and others
A.J. Perez  |  USA TODAY Sports
The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee announced Thursday it has launched an investigation into the U.S. Olympic Committee, USA Gymnastics, Michigan State University and other entities in the wake of the convictions of Larry Nassar, the doctor who molested scores of athletes over a span of about two decades.  
“Sexual assault should never be tolerated, but when it does occur, it is imperative that swift and immediate action be taken to stop the abuse, prevent it from recurring, and address its effect,” the committee, led by chair Trey Gowdy, (R-S.C.) and ranking member Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), wrote in a letter to USA Gymnastics.
“One of the most disturbing aspects of the survivors’ accounts is how this reprehensible conduct went undetected or ignored for years. Coaches, instructors, law enforcement, and other trusted adults all failed these young athletes.”
MORE
Nasser gets 40-125 years in final criminal case
The committee also said it is investigating the roles of Twistars USA Gymnastics Club and Karolyi Ranch related to the abuse alleged by more than 260 female athletes. Nassar served as the team doctor for USA Gymnastics and Michigan State.
Nassar was sentenced to 60 years in federal prison on child pornography charges in December and received two sentences in two cases of criminal sexual abuse in Michigan courts, one for 40-175 years in January and one for 40-125 years earlier this week .
The Oversight Committee’s interest follows other efforts by federal legislators.
In each of the five letters, the committee sought documentation of “any and all" sexual assault complaints lodged against Nassar and others, training and policy procedures and steps taken to prevent such abuse from occurring again.
In the letters, the committee requested information “as soon as possible” and set a deadline of Feb. 22.
This isn’t the first time the Oversight Committee has launched sports investigations.
Most notably, the committee called for hearings a decade ago in the wake of the Mitchell Report that detailed the use of performance-enhancing drugs in Major League Baseball. Roger Clemens testified in front of that committee and later was charged with making false statements to Congress, although he was acquitted in in June 2012. 
An Indianapolis Star investigation of USA Gymnastics, begun in 2016, uncovered widespread sexual abuse of athletes by coaches and others and failures to alert authorities. The reporting by the IndyStar, part of the USA TODAY Network, led to new federal laws requiring Olympic organizations and others to report all allegations of sexual assault to authorities and resulted in the ouster of USA Gymnastics’ president and entire board.
Follow Perez on Twitter @byajperez
PHOTOS: CLOSER LOOK AT KAROLYI RANCH
 
