Katherine and Eric
Holy crow! I'm related to George Washington.”
Just days after beginning her family history search, Emily discovered a truly legendary ancestor. With the help of Ancestry Hints, she traced her family all the way back to her ten-times great grandmother, who just so happened to also be George Washington’s aunt.
Emily found a presidential cousin—who could be hiding in your family tree?
Find your story Grow your tree
What are you? What are you? What are you?”
Growing up, Lezlie had always encountered curiosity about her ethnicity from people she'd meet. “I probably got the question 3 to 4 times a week if I was Asian or Moroccan or something else,” she shared. So she jumped at the opportunity to find out through AncestryDNA.
And it turns out, Lezlie's DNA results did include African, European, and Asian. “It was great because it helped confirm what I knew in my gut… with a little surprise.”
Lezlie's DNA results included African, European, and Asian. “It was great because it helped confirm what I knew in my gut… with a little surprise.”
Explore your ethnicity
So I traded in my lederhosen for a kilt.”
Growing up, Kyle’s family was German, no doubt about it. He even grew up wearing lederhosen in a German dance troupe. But when Kyle began building his family tree, he couldn’t actually find any German ancestors.
“So I decided to have my DNA tested, and the big surprise was we're not German at all,” he says. And soon enough, Ancestry Hints led him to generations of Scottish ancestors.
What surprises are hiding in your family tree?
Start with a family tree Grow your tree Start with AncestryDNA
It just made me feel like I belong somewhere.”
When Idries created his family tree, he started with just the name of his parents and grandparents. Soon, Ancestry Hints started popping up: "I was getting all these leaves, taking me back generation after generation."
Joining forces with his twin, Jamil, the brothers uncovered fascinating stories about their ancestors. They both agree, "You feel like you know these people—you feel connected to them."
Start your family tree Grow your tree
I thought I had married an Italian?”
Marrying into Eric's family, Katherine was told of a rich Italian family history—"My lineage was all Vecchios and the Zuccolis," according to Eric. But when Eric's AncestryDNA results said he was only 16%, Katherine took on the search and discovered an Eastern European ancestor he never knew he had.
Katherine and Eric used both AncestryDNA and a family tree to solve their mystery—how will you begin your journey?
Katherine and Eric used both AncestryDNA and a family tree to solve their mystery—how will you begin your journey?
