US Speedskating Names Karen Ocwieja Short Track Head Athletic Trainer
US Speedskating Names Karen Ocwieja Short Track Head Athletic Trainer
Print
July 21, 2015, 12:37 p.m. (ET)
KEARNS, Utah - US Speedskating (USS) has named Karen Ocwieja as the Short Track Head Athletic Trainer for the organization effective immediately.
Ocwieja, 28, returns to the Olympic movement in a full-time capacity having spent the previous year operating her own business in Missoula, Mont. From 2011-14, Ocwieja worked at the Lake Placid Olympic Training Center providing health care services to the Olympic and Paralympic athletes on-site. Additionally, she served on the medical staff for the United States Olympic Committee during the 2014 Winter Paralympic Games in Sochi, the 2014 Four Nations Cup for USA Hockey and the 2012 Bobsled/Skeleton World Championships.
“We’re very excited to have Karen join our staff as the Short Track Head Athletic Trainer,” said Shane Domer, Sports Science Director. “We strongly feel that her experience and knowledge within the Olympic movement will help ensure that we have a healthy team heading into Pyeongchang”.  
“I’m thrilled and thankful to be back in the Olympic movement.” Ocwieja said. “The support staff surrounding these athletes is a stellar group of individuals and I look forward to collaborating with them to provide world class service to our athletes.”
The Stockbridge, Mich. native completed her undergraduate degree from North Central College (Naperville, Ill.) in 2009. She received her master’s degree in Exercise Science with a concentration in Athletic Training from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 2011.
About US Speedskating
From Pond to Podium, we are US Speedskating. We grow and nurture a sport where all ages can experience the thrill of speed and the camaraderie of the skating community. US Speedskating is responsible for the development of speedskating from grassroots to the highest elite racing programs. US Speedskating is recognized by the United States Olympic Committee and the International Skating Union as the governing body for the sport of speed skating in the United States. The Organization has won 86 Olympic medals to-date, making it one of the most successful sports in U.S. Olympic history. US Speedskating is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization. Follow us on Twitter , Instagram , on Facebook  and at www.usspeedskating.org .
