Meet Alaska’s Winter Olympians
A record 14 Alaskans -- 11 of them cross-country skiers -- are competing in Pyeongchang.
Print article
Here's a look at the largest contingent of Alaska athletes in Olympic history.
Cross-country skier Sadie Bjornsen poses for a portrait at the U.S. Olympic Committee Media Summit in Park City, Utah, on Sept. 27. (Lucy Nicholson / Reuters)
SADIE BJORNSEN
High school: Liberty Bell High School (Winthrop, Washington)
College: UAA, APU
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: sadiebjornsen.com
Sadie is a two-time Olympian. At the 2014 Olympics, she was a member of the ninth-place women's relay team and placed 18th in the 10K classic and 31st in the 15K skiathlon. At the 2017 World Championships, she teamed up with Jessie Diggins to win a bronze medal in the team sprint.
Erik Bjornsen competes in the men’s skiathlon in Lillehammer, Norway in Dec. 2017. Terje Bendiksby/ NTB scanpix via REUTERS
ERIK BJORNSEN
High school: Liberty Bell High School (Winthrop, Washington)
College: UAA, APU
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: erikbjornsen.com
Like older sister Sadie, Erik is a two-time Olympian. At the 2014 Olympics, he placed sixth in the team sprint, 11th in the men's relay, 36th in the 15K classic, 38th in the 30K skiathlon and 39th in the freestyle sprint.
Rosie Brennan trains on the trails around Independence Mine at Hatcher Pass in October 2017. (Marc Lester / ADN)
ROSIE BRENNAN
High school: Park City High (Utah)
College: Dartmouth College, APU
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: rosiebrennan.blogspot.com
Rosie is an Olympic rookie who has been competing on the World Cup tour since the 2012-13 season. She helped the women's relay team win a bronze medal in a 2015 World Cup in Lillehammer, Norway, and owns three other top-10 World Cup finishes.
APU’s Rosie Frankowski skis in the final day of the U.S. Cross Country Ski Championships on Jan. 8. (Marc Lester / ADN)
ROSIE FRANKOWSKI
High school: Southwest High School (Minneapolis)
College: Northern Michigan University, APU
PFD recipient: Yes
APU’s Logan Hanneman, who finished second overall, rounds a corner during the freestyle sprint quarterfinals of the Seawolf Invitational at Kincaid Park on Tuesday, Feb. 7, 2017. (Bill Roth / ADN)
LOGAN HANNEMAN
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Logan, Reese's younger brother, is an Olympic rookie who won a silver medal in the classic sprint at last month's national championships and gold medal in the freestyle sprint at last season's national championships. At the 2016 U23 World Championships for skiers under 23, he placed 15th in the freestyle sprint.
APU skier Reese Hanneman claims the classic sprint championship, Jan. 8, crossing the finish line just ahead of Tyler Kornfield, right. (Marc Lester / ADN)
REESE HANNEMAN
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: reesehanneman.com
Reese, Logan's older brother, is an Olympic rookie who won both sprint titles at last month's national championships. At both the 2011 and 2012 U-23 World Championships for skiers under 23, he placed 24th in the sprint race.
Men’s 30K classic race winner Tyler Kornfield is on the podium during the U.S. Cross Country Skiing Championships at Kincaid Park on Jan. 7. (Bill Roth / ADN)
TYLER KORNFIELD
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center; as a junior, Alaska Winter Stars
PFD recipient: Yes
Instagram: @tkornfield
Tyler is an Olympic rookie who captured the 30K classic title at last month's national championships. At the 2013 U23 World Championships for skiers under 23, he placed 19th in the freestyle sprint.
Rosie Mancari, 24,  is an Olympic rookie who is ranked 14th in snowboardcross and owns a World Cup gold medal in team snowboardcross. (Marc Lester / ADN)
ROSIE MANCARI
Team/club: Steamboat Springs Winter Sports Club
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: rosiemancari.com
Rosie is an Olympic rookie who is coming off one of the best World Cup results of her career — she placed eighth at Bansko, Bulgaria, the final World Cup race before the Olympics.
Keegan Messing, 26, practices at the Subway Sports Centre in January. (Bill Roth / ADN)
KEEGAN MESSING
Team/club: Sherwood Park Figure Skating Club, Alberta
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: keeganmessing.com
Keegan is an Olympic rookie who clinched his spot in the Pyeongchang Games by placing second at last month's Canadian national championships. He skated for the United States until the 2014-15 season, when he took advantage of his dual U.S./Canadian citizenship to join the Canadian federation. Earlier this season, he registered his best Grand Prix result on foreign soil by grabbing fifth place at the NHK Trophy in Japan.
Freestyle sprint winner Caitlin Patterson is flanked by runner up Jasmi Joensuu, left, and Petra Hyncicova, right on the podium during the U.S. Cross Country Skiing Championships at Kincaid Park on Friday, Jan. 5, 2018. (Bill Roth / ADN)
CAITLIN PATTERSON
Team/club: Craftsbury Nordic Ski Club; as a junior, Alaska Winter Stars
PFD recipient: Not since 2012
Website: caitlinpatterson.wordpress.com
Caitlin, Scott's older sister, is an Olympic rookie. She is coming off a sweep at last month's national championships, where she claimed U.S. titles in all four women's races . She rode that momentum to the World Cup tour, where she placed 20th in a 10K classic in Slovenia and 23rd in a 10K freestyle in Austria.
APU skier Scott Patterson competes during the 15-kilometer freestyle race at the 2018 U.S. Cross Country Ski Championships at Kincaid Park on January 3, 2018. (Marc Lester / ADN)
SCOTT PATTERSON
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center; as a junior, Alaska Winter Stars
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: scottgpatterson.wordpress.com
Scott, Caitlin's younger brother, is an Olympic rookie who is coming off a dominant victory in the men's 15K classic at the national championships last month. He scored points in his most recent World Cup race by placing 27th in the 15K freestyle race last month in Austria. He is the reigning Mount Marathon champion .
Cross-country skier Kikkan Randall poses for a portrait at the U.S. Olympic Committee Media Summit in Park City, Utah, U.S. September 27, 2017. Lucy Nicholson / REUTERS
KIKKAN RANDALL
Team/club: Alaska Pacific University Nordic Ski Center
PFD recipient: Yes
Website: kikkan.com
Kikkan is Alaska's first five-time Olympian (2002, 2006, 2010, 2014, 2018). America's most decorated skier, she is a three-time winner of the World Cup overall sprint title and a three-time World Championship medalist. She and husband Jeff Ellis welcomed a baby boy in 2016, making Randall one of a handful of mothers on the U.S. Olympic team. Her best Olympic results include:
2014 — 7th team sprint, 8th women's relay, 18th freestyle sprint
2010 — 8th classic sprint, 11th women's relay, 23rd 30K freestyle
2006 — 9th freestyle sprint, 10th team sprint, 14th women's relay
2002 — 44th freestyle sprint
Ryan Stassel speaks during a press conference Feb. 6, in advance of the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games.  (Andrew P. Scott / USA TODAY Sports)
RYAN STASSEL
