Pigeons & Planes Contributing Editor / Freelance writer for Complex News and Dazed Digital
Feb 09, 2018
Tweet
Image via Getty
The Winter Olympics opening ceremony took place earlier today in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and two men impersonating Donald Trump and North Korean supreme leader Kim Jong-un caused a bit of a stir when they showed up.  Business Insider reports that the men caused a scene when they turned up, immediately catching the eye of reporters and photographers there to document the opening ceremony.
Fake Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un crash #PyeongChang2018 pic.twitter.com/zvVcdUi8CT
— Toluse Olorunnipa (@ToluseO) February 9, 2018
It's not clear who the two men actually are, or why they turned up in their respective costumes, but they definitely got a lot of attention. 
Here’s a bad picture of the Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un impersonators who just caused a big commotion in one section of the Olympic stands! pic.twitter.com/6YD9sR7kxy
— Andrew Keh (@andrewkeh) February 9, 2018
Of course, it wasn't that long until they got kicked out for causing a scene.
Drama! Big excitement as Trump and Kim Jong Un impersonators were just escorted out of stadium right behind me. #pyeongchang2018 #olympics
— melissa block (@NPRmelissablock) February 9, 2018
North Korea's decision to take part in the Winter Olympics hasn't been welcomed by everyone, despite the South Korean government agreeing to let them participate. They even have a joint women's hockey team with South Korea. During the opening ceremony, anti-unification protests took place outside of the Olympic stadium in Pyeongchang, where pictures of Kim Jong-un were burned.
An anti-unification protest has broken out next to the Olympic stadium in Pyeongchang pic.twitter.com/ecHibjYmKS
— Ryan Broderick (@broderick) February 9, 2018
The protestors outside of the Olympic stadium apparently love Trump but hate the idea of peace talks with North Korea, so it seems unlikely the impersonators are connected to the protests. Meanwhile, there were also protests against Trump and Japanese prime minister Shinzō Abe's calls for possible military action against North Korea, with signs of "Against War! For Peace! Yankee Go Home!!"
I guess it didn’t send. But here’s the picture of the protest since uh some people don’t believe me pic.twitter.com/6p4qXu3ar5
— aaron bauer (@ABauer_ATR) February 9, 2018
Looks like the Winter Olympics are off to a great start, then.
Related
