LOL: Trump and Kim impersonators caused a flurry of confusion at Winter Olympics
February 9, 2018 Ryan
Share Tweet
Kicked out
People just can’t handle jokes anymore and this was is pretty darn funny. The Winter Olympics recently held the opening ceremony but there were a couple of very unexpected guests that arrived together creating quite a controversy.
Two impersonators showed up dressed as our POTUS and the NK Dictator. They looked close enough that it created enough commotion to get them kicked out of the ceremony!
Daily Wire Reports:
Two impersonators of President Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un were booted from the Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony on Friday for causing confusion among spectators.
According to  Reuters , “people dressed up as U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un caused a commotion when they appeared in the stands at the Olympic Games Opening Ceremony on Friday before swiftly being shown out by security staff.”
Speaking with a reporter, neither man identified himself, but they said they were having a great time.
“We’re getting along great,” said the Kim lookalike.
“We wanted to surprise everyone and bring world peace and then we’re being escorted out by security guards, which I think is really unfair,” he added. “Doesn’t everyone want peace?”
Unity and peace was the theme at this year’s opening ceremony, with both North and South Korea entering the arena under one flag. American Vice President Mike Pence and Kim’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, watched from a VIP box.
“Is my sister getting the same treatment?” the Kim lookalike said upon being escorted out.
According to  Time , Kim’s sister appeared to greet South Korean Moon Jae-in and his wife with smiles in the VIP spectating box.
“As South Korean President Moon Jae-in and his wife greeted VIPs in their dignitary box to watch the opening ceremony, they turned to shake hands with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s younger sister, who arrived earlier in the day on an unprecedented visit to the South by a member of the North’s ruling Kim family,” reports Time. “All broke out in broad smiles.”
Pence arrived after the greeting and was seated beside the Moons and next to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his wife. Pence did not stand for the unified Korean team’s entrance.
Hot Videos of the week! 
Would you like to see the swamp drained?
Cast your vote here>>>  http://bit.ly/Lockthemup
Finally Hillary could be going to JAIL.. 
Would you like to see Crooked Hillary Investigates again?
Cast your vote Here>>> http://bit.ly/Investigate_Hillary
Do you still support Trump? Show your support and cast your vote.
Cast your vote Here>>> http://bit.ly/I_Support_Trump
