TV Networks : Don't Fall for North Korea's Propaganda at the Olympics!
Petition By:
StandUnited Petitions
SHARE
North Korea is using the Winter Olympics to put on a “charm offensive” and spread its propaganda around the world. Kim Jong Un’s horrifying dictatorship routinely starves and tortures its own people – yet, they’re putting on a pageant of athletes and performers designed to make the regime look friendly.
 
America’s mainstream media is already falling for the hoax. NBC’s Lester Holt traveled to North Korea, where he reported glowingly on a ski resort there. Happy North Koreans filled the ski lift and zoomed down a snowy mountainside…and the whole thing was staged by the North Korean government. The resort lies empty most of the year. The country’s people live in dire poverty.
 
We must not tolerate American media spreading North Korea’s lies. Our journalists must do better. Sign this petition to tell the networks that you see right through North Korea’s fake news – and they should, too.
To TV Networks:
North Korea is trying to charm the world while their neighbors to the South host the Olympic Games. Their athletes will compete on the same team as the South Koreans, in an effort to show cooperation – but the gesture is hollow. Kim Jong Un continues to use state-controlled media to tell his people that South Korea and the United States are evil.
Kim Jong Un has sent a cruise ship full of singers and dancers to South Korea to steal the spotlight from South Korea and position North Korea as a happy place where the arts are thriving. North Korea also sent their top pop star, Hyon Song-Wol, to put a friendly face on an evil regime. Their ploy is working: CNN has already released a video profile on Ms. Hyon. At past events like the World Cup, television networks have shown smiling, cheering North Koreans in the stands. They failed to mention, however, that those “fans” were people forced by the government to play along and make their country look good to the outside world.
North Korea is eager to spread propaganda that hides the cruel reality of the dictatorship. American television networks shouldn’t be helping them.
Sincerely,
