6. Mr. Lemoncello’s Library Olympics by Chris Grabenstein (4–6)
We love this clever series even when the Olympic torch isn’t lit, but the upcoming games are a great excuse to highlight it. In this second title, Dewey Decimal decoders trade athletic events for literary ones.
7. Ghost by Jason Reynolds (5–8)
In the first book in the critically acclaimed Track series, four kids compete on a top middle school track team that could head to the Junior Olympics. Also check out the second book, Patina , and the forthcoming third title, Sunny .
8. Gold Medal Winter by Donna Freitas (5–8)
The attention that comes with being an Olympic-hopeful figure skater is a lot for Esperanza Flores to handle. She’s also dealing with a tough training schedule, mean-girl drama, and a high-profile love triangle.
9. Tumbling by Caela Carter (6–10)
The alternating perspectives of five young gymnasts, each chasing Olympic dreams, give readers a glimpse into the intense world of elite gymnastics.
10. Goldfish by Nat Luurtsema (7–10)
What happens to all those Olympic hopefuls who don’t make the cut? When Louise Brown doesn’t make the British swim team, she takes her talent in a different direction.
Books for Learning About Olympic History and Events
These nonfiction titles will help your students appreciate the legacy and scope of the Olympic Games.
11. G is for Gold Medal by Brad Herzog (1–4)
Read the rhyming couplets in this nonfiction alphabet book to younger students or dive into the lengthier information to learn about the history, events, and athletes of the Olympics.
12. Long-Armed Ludy and the First Women’s Olympics by Jean L.S. Patrick (1–4)
Skinny but strong Lucile “Ludy” Godbold didn’t look like a shot-putter, but she managed to shatter records to earn a spot on the first US Women’s Olympic team. Her story demonstrates the power of community, too. It took help from her entire college for her be able to go.
Meghan McCarthy’s hallmark illustrations and talent for wacky-but-true storytelling shine in this title about the first Olympic marathon ever held in the United States.
14. Winter Olympic Sports series by Laura Hamilton Waxman (2–4)
Let your students choose which sport they want to find out more about with titles from this nonfiction series featuring clear-cut informational text and engaging photographs. Topics include:  bobsled and luge , ice hockey and curling ,  snowboarding , and more.
15. Summer Olympic Sports series by Allen Morey and Matt Doedan (2–4)
Just like the series listed above, but this one covers summer sports, like basketball , track and field ,  volleyball , and several others.
