CREATE A MEMORABLE EVENT AT THE
Dayton Masonic Center!
WE CAN ACCOMMODATE GROUPS OF ALL SIZES, CONCERTS, CORPORATE MEETINGS, MOVIE & PHOTO PRODUCTIONS, CONFERENCES, BANQUETS, SEMINARS, PARTIES.
The Dayton Masonic Center is a significant historical building in Dayton, Ohio. It was built by a Masonic Temple Association formed from 14 Masonic groups. The building was completed over a 2-year, 9-month period by 450 workers, a majority of whom were Masonic Brethren, about which it was said: "Without thought of honor or gain, these men gave unstintingly of their time, abilities and means, sparing neither themselves nor their personal interests to advance this building project to its happy fulfillment."
The center is a contributing property in the Steele's Hill-Grafton Hill Historic District, a historic district that was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1986. The building is also included in a locally designated historic district.
Ballroom & Balcony
This large, stately room was built for elegant formal dining in the 1920’s and is host to many weddings, galas and other celebrations today.
This historic property has undergone many improvements over the years to preserve the integrity that the building was designed with. These improvements include modern amenities like air conditioning, a new ceiling treatment, and LED lighting. The light-colored terrazzo floors are polished with a high shine, reflecting the elegance of today’s client.
Schiewetz Auditorium
The Schiewetz Auditorium* is located in the northern section of the building, from the First Floor Mezzanine and above.
The auditorium was extensively renovated in 2010, including the replacement of the seats and carpet. It has a seating capacity of 1,800 people.
The state of the art professional concert sound system makes it a perfect place for large formal presentations or musical events.
*All Auditorium events must be approved by the Dayton Masonic Board.
These are a few of the rooms available for your event or meeting. Find out more about these and other rooms in our facility .
Contact us to find out more about our renting one our historic rooms
General info and meeting room rentals:
    937-222-9103 x222
Ballroom rental and room rentals with food service:
    937-559-4590
Elite Catering , the exclusive caterer of the
Dayton Masonic Center
Feel free to contact us. We're always ready to help you.
Dayton Masonic Center
525 W Riverview Ave, Dayton, OH 45405
Information, Questions or general Inquiries:
Call 1-937-222-9103
