Share
Now other Olympic teams are also sharing their behind-the-scenes snaps.
From sunbathing sessions to morning rituals, Team USA athletes give us a glimpse into their world away from the slopes...
Jamie Poser works hard for her gleaming gnashers. And the beaming bobsleigher shared this smiley snap in the run up to the Winter Olympics, revealing that she isn't quite ready to take on the day without giving them a good scrub
After touching down in South Korea on Thursday, Team USA's ski and snowboarding team posted this adorable snap with them wearing matching white jackets and bobble hats
Hurry up! The USA's biathlon team gave Olympic fans insight into one of the pitfalls of the Games: endless waits for buses to arrive
Alpine skier Stacey Cook revealed to her thousands of Twitter followers that there's one thing she can't live without when she's on the road: her special mattress. Let's hope she managed to get it on the plane for the Winter Olympics!
Figure skaters Evan Bates and Madison Chock shared this adorable snap as they cuddled up ahead of the Opening Ceremony. The power couple have been dating since their were teenagers
Snowboarder Kelly Clark couldn't resist sharing this proud snap with her 33,000 Twitter followers showing her wearing all five commemorative rings she has collected during her trips to the Olympics with Team USA
One small step for woman! Snowboarder Arielle Gold rocked a space-suit-esque get-up as she posed up for her fans on the Pyeongchang slopes
Wakey wakey! Snowboarder Shaun White enjoyed a peaceful slumber as he flew to South Korea's capital for the Games, shutting out the bright lights with a eye mask adorned with what looks like a cat face
Snowboarder AJ Muss tucked the sleeves of his snuggly Team USA jacket into an enormous pair of brown gloves after arriving in Pyeongchang. Though making clear to his fans that this is not a look he tends to favour, he was certainly warming to it 
Cross-country skier Sadie Bjornsen shared this snap of her doing a spot of sunbathing while reclining in the iconic Olympic rings in South Korea
Figure skater Alex Shibutani shared this adorable video with his Twitter followers which he made with his sister and fellow Olympian Maia to honour their mother. They began working on it two years ago
Winter Olympics 2018: The key events in Pyeongchang
After the spectacular opening ceremony, which saw an historic handshake between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Kim Yo Jong, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, the games began in earnest.
Nearly 3,000 athletes from 92 nations have descended on Pyeongchang, and more than 100 gold medals are up for grabs. 
Here are some of the key events and when to tune in and watch them (times in GMT):
Preliminary rounds: February 8, from 2am
While the Games officially kicked off on Friday, the sporting action actually started a day before, with mixed curling and the qualification round for the men’s individual normal hill ski jumping. 
Opening Ceremony: February 9, from 10.30am
The spectacular display featured child performers, huge puppets, a world-record 1,200 drones flown simultaneously, and thousands of dancers in a celebration of Korean history and unity.
Inside the arena 30,000 people, including a 200-strong North Korean cheerleading squad, watched in -3C temperatures.
The two-hour showpiece kick started the games at -3C, dispelling worries that a potential chill of -10C would be too cold for some events to be held
Television viewers may catch site of this group of North Korean cheerleaders, sent to the South by Kim Jong-un to support North Korea's small selection of competitors
The parade of nations featured huge flags projected on to the stage for each nation, and was capped off when athletes from both North and South entered under a single united flag.  
South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean ceremonial head of state Kim Yong Nam, who had earlier shaken hands in an historic meeting, clapped and waved in unison as the team entered.
Men's downhill: February 11, from 2am
One of the showpiece events of the Games, with favourites including Beat Feuz of Switzerland, Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway and Max Franz of Austria. 
North and South unify for 'Korea' ice hockey team: February 12, 12.10pm
Female hockey players from both North Korea and South Korea make history by joining forces. At 9.10pm local time they will take on Sweden in their opening fixture. 
Female hockey players from both North Korea and South Korea make history by joining forces. At 9.10pm local time they will take on Sweden in their opening fixture.
One of the Games' biggest stars, legendary US snowboarder Shaun White (pictured) - dubbed the Flying Tomato - expected to compete in the men's halfpipe finals
Halfpipe final: February 14, from 1.30am
One of the Games' biggest stars, legendary US snowboarder Shaun White - dubbed the Flying Tomato -  expected to compete in the men's halfpipe finals.
Women's curling: From February 14, coverage starting at 5am
Britain led by Eve Muirhead has strong medal hopes in curling with the competition running throughout the Games 
Ice dancing: February 19, from 3.30am
Always a popular event at the Winter Olympics, the ice dancing will take place at Gangneung Ice Arena. British medal hopes rest on Penny Coomes and Nick Buckland who have been helped by Olympic legends Torvill and Dean.
Always a popular event at the Winter Olympics, the ice dancing will take place at Gangneung Ice Arena. British medal hopes rest on Penny Coomes and Nick Buckland (pictured) who have been helped by Olympic legends Torvill and Dean
Women's Skeleton final: February 17, from 11am
Britain's Lizzy Yarnold is back to defend her gold medal from Sochi 2014.
Big Air snowboarding: February 19 
Katie Ormerod, 20, leads British hopes in the spectacular Big Air contest, new to the Olympics, as well as slopestyle which takes place on February 11 at 4.30am. can follow in her tracks. 
Katie Ormerod (pictured), 20, leads British hopes in the spectacular Big Air contest, new to the Olympics, as well as slopestyle which takes place on February 11 at 4.30am. can follow in her tracks
Closing Ceremony: February 25, from 11am to 1pm
Ivanka Trump is reportedly set to be among the spectators as the games comes to an end. The party is expected to be another tribute to South Korean culture. The Olympic torch will be handed over to the 2020 Summer Olympics host Tokyo.
Share or comment on this article
