He said he would prefer not to meet Mr. Pence at the informal gathering of American athletes and the official delegation held before the Games.
Photo
Vice President Mike Pence last year. Mr. Pence has been dogged by claims that he supports conversion therapy ever since 2000. Credit Pete Marovich for The New York Times
“If it were before my event, I would absolutely not go out of my way to meet somebody who I felt has gone out of their way to not only show that they aren’t a friend of a gay person but that they think that they’re sick,” Mr. Rippon told the newspaper.
Mr. Pence has been dogged by claims that he supports conversion therapy since his 2000 campaign for Congress. After stating his opposition to same-sex marriage and anti-discrimination laws that protect gay people, his campaign website addressed the Ryan White Care Act, which provided federal funding for H.I.V. /AIDS patients:
Congress should support the reauthorization of the Ryan White Care Act only after completion of an audit to ensure that federal dollars were no longer being given to organizations that celebrate and encourage the types of behaviors that facilitate the spreading of the HIV virus. Resources should be directed toward those institutions which provide assistance to those seeking to change their sexual behavior.
That was widely interpreted as signaling his support for conversion therapy. Representatives for Mr. Pence did not respond to emails seeking comment this week. But in January, a spokeswoman, Alyssa Farah, responded to Mr. Rippon , telling USA Today, “This accusation is totally false and has no basis in fact.”
In 2016, a spokesman, Marc Lotter, denied that Mr. Pence supported conversion therapy and said his campaign website proposed federal funding for “groups that promoted safe sexual practices.”
But Mr. Lotter declined to explain what Mr. Pence meant when he referred to groups that “celebrate and encourage” activity that spreads H.I.V. Gay and transgender groups view that language as directed at their community.
Mr. Rippon repeated his criticism of Mr. Pence on Twitter after the USA Today article was published, but he told reporters he had no interest in “picking a fight” with the vice president.
That seemed as if it might be the end of it.
An invitation and a rejection
But two weeks later, things escalated. On Wednesday, USA Today reported that Mr. Pence’s office was so concerned about Mr. Rippon’s criticism that it had taken the unusual step of asking the United States Olympic Committee to arrange “a conversation between the two.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Rippon, true to his word, would not meet with the vice president, the paper reported.
That seemed to be too much for Mr. Pence. On Thursday, he lashed out at the paper, tweeting that the report was “fake news” and that the journalist who had written it was bent on dividing Americans. But he was careful not to criticize Mr. Rippon.
Headed to the Olympics to cheer on #TeamUSA . One reporter trying to distort 18 yr old nonstory to sow seeds of division. We won’t let that happen! #FAKENEWS . Our athletes are the best in the world and we are for ALL of them! #TEAMUSA
—         Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) Feb. 8, 2018
. @Adaripp I want you to know we are FOR YOU. Don’t let fake news distract you. I am proud of you and ALL OF OUR GREAT athletes and my only hope for you and all of #TeamUSA is to bring home the gold. Go get ‘em!
—         Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) Feb. 8, 2018
Mr. Pence’s communications director, Jarrod Agen, denied that he ever requested a meeting with Mr. Rippon, and said that the USA Today report was “just not accurate.”
Newsletter Sign Up
Continue reading the main story
2018 Olympics Newsletter
For 19 days, our Sports newsletter will be all things Olympics. You’ll get the best from Pyeongchang: The events to watch, the stories to read and more.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
