Home / Lifestyle / Olympic Village’s Polyclinic Offers Full Range of Medical Services
Olympic Village’s Polyclinic Offers Full Range of Medical Services
Posted on
by Korea Bizwire in Lifestyle , Most Viewed , Sports & Entertainment with 0 Comments
On February 6, outsiders were treated to a view of the areas of the Olympic Village that are normally restricted to athletes and authorized personnel, including a quick look at the Olympic Polyclinics, facilities tasked with keeping participants fresh and healthy. (Image: Yonhap)
PYEONGCHANG, GANGNEUNG, Feb. 7 (Korea Bizwire) – On February 6, outsiders were treated to a view of the areas of the Olympic Village that are normally restricted to athletes and authorized personnel, including a quick look at the Olympic Polyclinics, facilities tasked with keeping participants fresh and healthy.
Located at each of the PyeongChang and Gangneung Olympic Villages, the Polyclinics boast a wealth of medical services, from orthopedics and pain management to physiotherapy and acupuncture.
The inclusion of acupuncture is a first in Winter Olympics history.
Not just for athletes, any individual authorized to enter the Olympic Village may drop by one of the Polyclinics if they’re feeling under the weather.
The majority of staff hail from Yonsei University Wonju Severance Hospital.
Senior nurse Kim Jeong-ah said, “There are 30 doctors, and varying numbers of nurses per category. Most major categories are covered. Three doctors in orthopedics, emergency care, and treatment of wounds and bodily injuries will be on standby at all times. The clinic also offers OB-GYN care to individuals who make an appointment.”
Mental health has been given significant importance at the Polyclinics, with mental health care specialists on-site to offer expert support to struggling patients.
As of February 6, no Korean athletes, North or South, have visited either of the Polyclinics.
A staff member at the Gangneung Polyclinic said the location has been averaging five visits a day, but that fortunately all patients were diagnosed with minor ailments.
The PyeongChang Organizing Committee said on Tuesday that 21 individuals had been diagnosed and treated, adding that they were recovering and in otherwise good health. (Image: Yonhap)
After some 1,200 Olympic staff were replaced with around 900 military personnel after 41 of the former exhibited symptoms of a norovirus infection by the early morning hours on Monday, the Polyclinics will look to ensure that the disease does not spread to the athletic contingent.
The PyeongChang Organizing Committee said on Tuesday that 21 individuals had been diagnosed and treated, adding that they were recovering and in otherwise good health.
 
