Help Tonga  to the Winter Olympics
$27,810 of $30,000 goal
  Wishes   Brookfield, QLD
My name is Pita Taufatofua and I am an Olympian from Tonga. After working for 15 years councelling homeless youth, I found my calling. My goal is to motivate and inspire people to reach for the best within them and I do that through setting seemingly "Impossible" goals and then moving mountains to achieve them. And that is how  a coconut from the pacific  found himself thousands of miles from home swimming around on Cross country skis in a constant state of hypothermia.
We are raising money to help me qualify  Tonga for a spot in the 2018 Winter Olympics and we only have 10 weeks to do it. 
We are seeking much needed funds to pay for some race worthy ski equipment which most countries spend tens of thousands of dollars on. My rental skis just didnt cut it and felt like dragging a sack of sweet potato through the snow. We also need funds to use till February entering 15-20 races and for transport and  accomodation so that I am able to defrost after each day on the snow.
The funds needed are for :-
1)$2k to get across to Europe
2) $10 k for race worthy ski equipment. Classic and freestyle skiing.
3)$8 K for transport and flights to 20 races throughout Europe.
4) $8K for accomodation for 3 months
5) $2K for ass hugging spandex race suit and training clothes
6)$10K for Coaching fees, recovery, food.
I will be donating 20% of all raised funds back to Royal Tonga ski federation to do my bit to help Tonga continue to find and train athletes into the future.
My training started with 4 weeks on snow in Germany (actually more time was spent upside down in the snow) followed by entry into the  World championships in Finland. I finished within 1 second of beating Indias best skier. The way I saw it, that meant I was better then 1.3 billion people in the world. i felt good.
So with a renewed spirit I paddled my canoe back to the warmth of the Pacific and started to train on a thing called roller skis. Basically, two scooters strapped to your feet. I found out very quickly that these things had no way of stopping. I skiied into many trees, people and cars. But slowly after a year of pain, things started to change and we saw big improvement.
I then drove 30 hrs sleeping in my car to get to my second race in Australia. I beat my best time by a solid minute and took 100 points off my FIS points. 
But now we need your help. I need to get across to Europe for the competition season leading into Pyeongchang. We only have weeks to qualify by having 5 races under 300 FIS points. I believe that with all of your help and support we can qualify and ensure that we are able to get Tonga a spot in the 2018 Winter Olympics
