Free sign up cp newsletter!
Sign up
By Michael Gryboski , Christian Post Reporter |
Feb 9, 2018 3:07 PM
1 / 6
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: Facebook/Olympics)The public is showing low interest for the 2018 Winter Olympics, amid fears of disruption from North Korea.
The 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea has officially begun, bringing together athletes from across the world to compete in various sports.
As the games begin, the United States has brought a diverse team of competitors to the global event that features many devout Christians.
Here, in no particular, are five openly Christian athletes who are competing at the Olympic games under the red, white, and blue banner.
Kelly Clark
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: Twitter/Kelly Clark)2018 Winter Olympics competitor Kelly Clark displaying her commemorative rings on Twitter.
Professional snowboarder Kelly Clark is a veteran of the Olympic games, going into this year's event having already won Gold and Bronze medals.
On her Twitter profile, Clark identifies herself as a "lover of coffee, god and good times," with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes noting in a January feature on her that she gave her life to Christ in 2004.
"My ministry, and what God is doing in my life, is really found in my career in the marketplace," she told FCA earlier this year.
"I'm in an industry where it's very foreign and it's very counter-cultural. I get to love these people really well who would never step foot in a church."
Elana Meyers Taylor
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: Facebook/Elana Meyers Taylor)2018 Winter Olympics athlete Elana Meyers Taylor
World champion bobsledder Elana Meyers Taylor won a Silver medal at the 2014 Sochi games and a Bronze at the 2010 Vancouver games.
In an interview with Christian Sports Journal published in November 2016, Taylor spoke about how when she competes internationally, she sees herself as representing not just herself or her country, but also "Christ and what He's done through me."
"I have a responsibility to show His love and show others what He's done for me. It's also freed me up. We're talking about the Olympics. We're talking about trying to win the gold medal. All of these things can be overwhelming," explained Taylor to the CSJ.
"But regardless of whether I win a gold medal or never compete again, I just have to trust that God has a plan for my life and I'm called to be His representative through the sport and outside of the sport."
Nic Taylor
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: Facebook/Nic Taylor)Olympic bobsledder Nic Taylor.
Professional bobsledder and husband to Elana Meyers Taylor, whom he met at a Bible study, Nic Taylor has accrued his share of medals in various competitions over the past several years.
According to an interview with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes published last month, Nic came to faith in 2005 when he survived three separate car accidents.
"It shouldn't have taken three, but it took three for me to realize I'm not in control of my life," recalled Nic to FCA.
"There's nothing I could have done to have walked away from three completely totaled cars. It was all God's doing. He had been there with me the entire time."
David Wise
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: Reuters)David Wise of the US competes during the men's freestyle skiing halfpipe.
David Wise made history in 2014 as the first-ever Olympic champion in Men's Skiing Halfpipe at the Winter Games in Sochi, Russia.
Calling himself a " Truth Follower " on his Twitter profile, Wise explained in a 2014 interview that faith plays a "huge role" in his confidence.
"I don't have to worry about what's happening or the outside influences as much because I feel like I can trust God, and He's going to see me through," Wise said, as reported by CBN.
"I can look back on my path and realize that God had a pretty significant part in taking care of me. It takes the pressure off and I can enjoy it."
Maame Biney
Expand | Collapse
(Photo: USA TODAY Sports/Jeff Swinger)Dec 16, 2017; Kerns, UT, USA; Maame Biney (1) reacts to winning the A Final of the 500-meter race qualifying her for a spot on the U.S. Olympic Team at Utah Olympic Oval.
American short track speed-skater Maame Biney started skating when she was 6 and qualified for the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics before she turned 18.
On her Instagram account , Biney explained that the "smile on my face doesn't mean my life is perfect. It means I appreciate what I have and what God has blessed me with."
In response to her qualifying win in Utah last December, Biney took to social media to "start off by thanking God."
"I am so sure that none of this would have happened if it wasn't for him," wrote Biney.  "If God hadn't given my dad the strength to wake up, and take me to practice, I wouldn't be here today. I also want to thank God for giving me the passion to do this."
1 / 6
