{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 12:06 AM EST Feb 10, 2018
Associated Press SOURCE: Associated Press
Highlights from the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics
Unity between North and South Korea was among the chief themes of the event
Share
{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 12:06 AM EST Feb 10, 2018
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea —
The Winter Olympics in South Korea have officially begun as teams entered the PyeongChang Olympic Stadium together. These were the highlights from the opening ceremony and parade.
SPOILER ALERT: If you were planning on watching the event tonight during the delayed U.S. broadcast, you may want to avoid this article.
Advertisement
1
The Olympic spirit
It rained fire into Olympic Stadium for parts of two hours on Friday night, and no one panicked — not the North Koreans, not the South Koreans, not the Americans. In fact, everyone seemed thrilled.
Associated Press
2
A warm welcome
By the time the opening ceremony ended, giant flames licked toward the sky as the envoys of two enemy governments watched warily.
Associated Press
3
The Olympic flame
South Korean figure skating gold medalist Yuna Kim has ignited the Olympic cauldron. A North Korean and South Korean from the countries’ joint hockey team also participated in the ceremony, handing off to Kim.
The opening ceremony kicked off what will be the biggest Winter Olympic Games to date with more than 2,900 athletes from 92 countries competing.
Kim won a gold medal at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics and a silver at the 2014 Sochi Games before retiring from competition. She remains perhaps the country’s most popular sports personality and has worked as a goodwill ambassador to promote the Pyeongchang Games.
Advertisement
4
Light it up
This will be the largest Winter Games in history, with 2,800 athletes due to compete in a record 102 events, but even during the parade of nations it was not always about the competitors, as the focus of some spectators turned to President Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un impersonators. Both were quickly ushered from the stands.
Associated Press
5
Fireworks light up the sky
As the Korean athletes marched together, President Moon shook hands with Kim Yo Jong, sister of North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un. She is the first member of Pyongyang's ruling dynasty to set foot in the rival country since the war.
Associated Press
6
Opening ceremony
South Korea's President Moon Jae-in described these Games as a "festival and celebration of peace," and the competition's curtain-raiser certainly set the tone.
Advertisement
7
Opening night
Even on a brutally cold February evening, there were moments aplenty to warm the heart during a Winter Olympics opening ceremony which had peace as its central theme.
Associated Press
8
Peace and unity
A giant dove of peace lit up the night sky, famous South Korean singers sang John Lennon's "Imagine" and, most significantly of all, athletes from North and South Korea walked in unison for the first time in 11 years.
Getty Images
9
Mike Pence arrives
Vice President Mike Pence walks to his seat alongside second lady Karen Pence at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympic Games at PyeongChang Olympic Stadium on February 9, 2018 in South Korea.
Advertisement
10
Two Koreas, one flag
In an extraordinary moment that could hardly be fathomed one month ago, North and South Korea entered the stadium together.
The countries are cooperating for a series of conciliatory measures, including having their athletes parade together for the first time in 11 years at the opening ceremony. The joyous group flew their flag, which was white with the blue Korean peninsula in the middle.
The two countries have also formed a joint women’s hockey team, which consists of 23 South Koreans and 12 North Koreans.
AP Photo/Vadim Ghirda
11
Hamlin carries US flag
Luge veteran and four-time Olympian Erin Hamlin arrived to her last Olympics carrying the U.S. flag, which started as a feel-good story but quickly turned controversial.
The large U.S. contingent was one of the more enthusiastic groups, and Hamlin smiled broadly as she waved the flag.
Hamlin and speedskater Shani Davis were among several candidates for the flagbearer role and athletes from each of the eight winter sports federations voted in the process, which eventually deadlocked at 4-4. Hamlin won a coin toss, which was the predetermined method of picking a winner should the vote end in a tie.
A tweet posted to Davis’ Twitter account said the process by which Hamlin won the honor was executed “dishonorably.”
Sean Haffey/Pool Photo via AP
12
He's back!
It was below freezing, and he had nothing on above the waist.
Despite early indications, Tonga’s Pita Taufatofua was oiled up and shirtless as he carried his country's flag. He blew up the internet in 2016 as flagbearer at the 2016 Summer Games in Rio, but he suggested he'd be bundled up this year.
He'll probably have a shirt on -- maybe even a coat -- when he competes in cross-country skiing during these Olympics.
Advertisement
13
Russia wears grey
The Russian Olympic team, known during the Pyeongchang games as the “Olympic Athletes from Russia,”entered the stadium under a significant cloud related to past doping concerns.
The Russians wore grey jackets with white scarves on Friday night and were carrying the Olympic flag. Response from the crowd was fairly muted, though some cheering could be heard.
There are 168 Russians who are being forced to compete in neutral uniforms under the Olympic flag as punishment for Russian doping in Sochi in 2014. Other athletes haven’t been invited to compete at all. Appeals by 45 of them were rejected Friday.
AP Photo/Michael Sohn
Greece starts it off
As is Olympic tradition, Greece began the parade of athletes.
Greece — which hosted the first modern Olympic games in 1896 — was followed by the other countries in alphabetical order according to the Korean alphabet.
AP Photo/David J. Phillip
Fireworks herald unity
A round of sparkling fireworks exploded just above a seemingly delighted North Korean cheering delegation.
With taekwondo demonstrations from both Koreas, South Korea put on a frigid show for the world meant to display a newfound desire to cooperate with the North along with Seoul’s stunning rise from poverty and war to Asian powerhouse.
The ceremony’s program followed the journey of five children as they travel through time from the past to the future as “they discover peace envisioned by Koreans.”
Part of the ceremony paid tribute to the South Korean flag, which is known as Taegeukgi, and is an illustration of balance and law in the universe. The interlocking semi-circles represent yin (blue) and yang (red).
Advertisement
