Gus Kenworthy and Adam Rippon Share a Lil' Kiss at Olympics Opening Ceremony: "Eat Your Heart Out, Pence"
"We're here. We're queer. Get used to it."
Feb 9, 2018
Twitter
Adam Rippon and Gus Kenworthy, two of Team USA's out Olympians this year, posted photos of the duo cuddling up to each other at the PyeongChang Games' Opening Ceremony, which took place Friday morning (or Friday evening in South Korea, given the time difference).
Rippon, who is competing in the men's figure skating competition, was the first openly gay athlete to qualify for Team USA's 2018 roster after the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in early January. He has spoke out against the Trump administration, and specifically criticized the choice of VPOTUS Mike Pence as one of the U.S. Olympic delegation's leads. “I would absolutely not go out of my way to meet somebody who I felt has gone out of their way to not only show that they aren’t a friend of a gay person but that they think that they’re sick,” he told USA Today .
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Adam Rippon Turned Down a Meeting With Mike Pence
Gus Kenworthy, who medaled in the 2014 Sochi Games, came out after his run in the 2014 Winter Games in a 2015 ESPN The Magazine cover story. (He technically qualified for PyeongChang a few weeks after Rippon.)
Kenworthy and Rippon, then, are two of the three openly LGBT members of Team USA who will be competing in Pyeongchang — according to NBC Olympics , speed skater Brittany Bowe is currently dating the Dutch speedskater Manon Kamminga.
And he two athletes got together during the Opening Ceremony to show how proud they are to be representing the LGBTQ community at the Olympics. On Twitter, Kenworthy posted three photos with Rippon, including one where he is placing a big ol' kiss on the figure skater's cheek, and writing "we're here, we're queer, get used to it." Rippon also posted a photo of himself and Kenworthy on both his Twitter and Instagram, adding the Pride flag emoji (among others).
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
— Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) February 9, 2018
Tonight I walked in the #OpeningCeremony and got to watch my old friend @Yunaaaa light the Olympic flame. Representing the USA is one of the greatest honors of my life and being able to do it as my authentic self makes it all so much sweeter ️‍❤️ pic.twitter.com/ZypvWkUBjD
— Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) February 9, 2018
Oh, and Kenworthy also left a pointed comment directed at Pence on his Instagram:
A post shared by gus kenworthy (@guskenworthy) on
Feb 9, 2018 at 7:29am PST
"I feel incredibly honored to be here in Korea competing for the US and I'm so proud to be representing the LGBTQ community alongside this amazing guy!" Kenworthy wrote. "Eat your heart out, Pence."
