MUST WATCH
North Korea releases video of military parade 01:01
"I think the military parade is a sideshow, I think they're calculating the resolve of the Western powers and any chance to drive a wedge between the South Korean people is a worthy exercise," said Joseph Siracusa, professor of human security and international diplomacy at RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia.
The North, he said, has nothing to lose with its Olympic gambit. It's only task, he argues, is to look "normal."
"If they come across as normal human beings, if they look normal and South Koreans treat them as normal, it's a great diplomatic victory. It won't solve a single problem though, as long as they continue with their nuclear weapons and ICBMs," he told CNN.
The US in the middle
Indeed the party looking most belligerent at the moment is the one Pyongyang is seeking to alienate from Seoul -- the United States. Before arriving in the South to attend the Winter Games, US Vice President Mike Pence warned that Pyongyang's charm offensive wasn't fooling anyone.
"We will not allow North Korean propaganda to hijack the message and imagery of the Olympic Games," Pence said after meeting with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Tokyo on Wednesday. "We'll be there to cheer our athletes, but we'll also be there to stand with our allies and remind the world that North Korea is the most tyrannical and oppressive regime on the planet."
U.S. Vice President Mike Pence inspects a PAC-3 interceptor missile system with Japanese Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera in Tokyo.
On Thursday he visited the Yokota Air Base in Japan, whose troops likely be among the front line in a military confrontation with North Korea.
"As the Old Book says, 'the soldier does not bear the sword in vain,' and we will defeat any attack and meet any use of conventional or nuclear weapons with a response that is rapid, overwhelming and effective," he said.
He also said there were more sanctions coming for Pyongyang, but didn't outline what they would be.
For Seoul, the possibility of a dangerous dilemma
South Korea has rolled out the red carpet for the North, keen to avoid any escalation of hostilities at a time when people are already leery of traveling to the peninsula . In its willingness to accommodate the North Koreans, the South agreed to have its athletes march with their northern neighbors under a unification flag rather than its own national standard. It also suspended joint military drills with the US for the duration of the Games. Meanwhile, in the coastal town of Gangwon on Thursday, the North Korean flag was raised alongside the Olympic standard.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who, during his presidential campaign, said he wanted to be the leader "who built a peaceful relationship" between the two Koreas, will face a quandary of catastrophic proportions should a member of the North Korean contingent decide to defect to the South.
JUST WATCHED
