Pence: White House has 'no tolerance' for domestic abuse 0:46
autoplay autoplay
Copy this code to your website or blog
<iframe src="https://www.nbcnews.com/widget/video-embed/1157941827673" width="560" height="315" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
After Pence sat down with NBC News, Trump spoke favorably of Porter at the White House Friday.
"We wish him well," the president told reporters. "He worked very hard. Found out about it recently and I was surprised by it. ... Obviously, tough time for him. He did a very good job when he was at the White House."
Pence reiterated the position of White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah, acknowledging that the administration "could have handled it better."
advertisement
"When I return to Washington, D.C., I'm going to look into the matter and I'll share my counsel with the president directly," Pence said.
Meanwhile, the vice president's tough talk on the North stands in stark contrast to the most recent approach by South Korea, whose high-level discussions with its neighbor last month resulted in the two nations agreeing to participate together in the Winter Games. North and South Korean athletes even marched together during the opening ceremony in PyeongChang, just 50 miles from the North Korean border.
Vice President Mike Pence watches the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Patrick Semansky / AP
And despite the ongoing tension between the U.S. and North Korea, Pence could very well bump into members of the North Korean delegation — led by Kim Yo Jong, the sister of authoritarian leader Kim Jong Un , and his ceremonial head of state, Kim Yong Nam — at the games.
Pence and his wife, Karen, were seated adjacent to South Korea's President Moon Jae-in and only one row in front of Kim Yo Jong at the opening ceremony.
Pence repeatedly called for the North to end its nuclear ambitions and referred to the possibility that the U.S. could use military might to compel them to do so. But he also said, "We hope it doesn't come to that."
"All options are on the table. I mean, as you've got in North Korea a country that is threatening the United States of America with ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons," Pence added at another point in the interview. "But we really do believe there is a peaceable outcome here to the denuclearization of the North Korean peninsula, but it's going to take consistent and intensified pressure to do that."
He pointed to his belief that economic pressure "contributed" to the North's "outreach" to the South regarding the Olympics, and that a new round of sanctions might help the regime move toward a "future without nuclear weapons."
"But make no mistake about it. The United States of America has viable military options to deal with a nuclear threat from North Korea," he said.
Lester Holt
