Home News Brampton Athletes to Watch During the 2018 Winter Olympics
Brampton Athletes to Watch During the 2018 Winter Olympics
By
Tweet on Twitter
It’s that time again, when Canada hopefully dominates the world stage at the Winter Olympics. South Korea officially hosts the games from February 9-25 in Pyeongchang County (not to be confused with Pyongyang!), as well as the Winter Paralympics from March 8-18.
Not surprisingly, Brampton is the hometown or birthplace of a few athletes–three to be exact–at the winter Olympics. Many former Brampton Battalion and Brampton Thunder ice hockey players are on the Olympic teams, too.
Note: Unlike the Summer Olympics, where athletes can train almost anywhere, most winter athletes reside in former Canadian Winter Olympic host cities Montreal, Calgary, and Vancouver or in places with specialized facilities and ski hills, such as Canmore, Collingwood, and small towns in Quebec.
Dave Greszczyszyn
Dave Greszczyszyn trains in Pyeongchang. // Courtesy of @CanadaGrizz
Dave Greszczsyzn grew up in Brampton, and was a science and gym teacher at Mayfield Secondary School before he became an athlete in the sport of skeleton. Skeleton is a one-person sledding sport on an ice track going face-first. Greszczsyzn is Canada’s top athlete in skeleton, reaching 10th place at the 2017 World Championship. Men’s skeleton is scheduled to take place on February 15 and 16.
Erin Mielzynski
Erin Mielzynski hits the slopes. // Courtesy of the Canadian Olympic Committee
Erin Mielzynski was born in Brampton, though she grew up in Guelph and resides in Collingwood. Mielzynski is one of 14 athletes on Canada’s Alpine Skiing team. In 2012 she was the first Canadian to win a World Cup race in slalom since 1971. She has competed in the 2010 Vancouver and 2014 Sochi games, and led her team to a silver medal in 2015 FIS World Championship. Women’s alpine skiing starts on February 11.
Caroline Park
Caroline Park // Courtesy of @parky_05
Caroline Park is from Brampton. She’s a medical student in the United States, and a former women’s ice hockey player at Princeton University. However, while she is playing ice hockey this Olympics, she was recruited to play for the South Korean women’s ice hockey team, as a forward on a special team comprising players from both North and South Korea. Park is a former teen actress on Canadian dramas Naturally, Sadie, and Degrassi: The Next Generation. The first game for her team is against Switzerland on February 10.
