{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 12:36 PM CST Feb 9, 2018
President Trump, Kim Jong Un lookalikes at Olympics 'want peace'
Impersonators got booted from the opening ceremony for drawing too much attention
Share
{copyShortcut} to copy Link copied!
Updated: 12:36 PM CST Feb 9, 2018
The Winter Olympics' opening ceremony was all about unity: North and South Korea marched under one flag, the South's president shook hands with the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and even U.S. Vice President Mike Pence sat mere feet from the North's delegation.
And before all of that, Kim and President Donald Trump were hanging out with each other. Kinda.
Advertisement
Highlights from the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics
A pair of impersonators played the roles of the rivals, surprising visitors to South Korea and becoming internet celebrities by the time they appeared at the opening ceremony . Unfortunately for them, the attention they drew also got the kicked out of the event.
Trump and Kim Jong Un (impersonators) meet at the Olympics! Hilarious. #VPinASIA pic.twitter.com/jf9rCQUsTK
— Josh Rogin (@joshrogin) February 9, 2018
According to The Telegraph , Trump was played by a 67-year-old American musician, Dennis Alan, while the Kim lookalike was a Hong Kong-based Australian musician named Howard.
People in Seoul were surprised to see what appeared to be U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un taking selfies. Of course it was two impersonators who took the opportunity to cause a sensation before the opening of the Pyeongchang Olympic Games pic.twitter.com/YPSVvMK28B
— The Telegraph (@Telegraph) February 9, 2018
As the dopplegangers moved around Seoul, bumping fists and smiling like old friends, it was a sharp contrast from how the real Trump and Kim have interacted over the past months. As Kim's regime has tested a series of ballistic missiles and threatened nuclear way, Trump famously vowed "fire and fury" against the North if the provocations continued.
Their lookalikes weren't in a war of words.
"What we'd like to achieve by coming to South Korea at the Winter Olympics," Howard told the newspaper, "is that to show the world this is what peace could look like when two leaders get along. I mean, we get along personally, so I believe Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un, they will, if they talk, they'll probably get along, because in my opinion, they're much the same people.
"Let's start talking and stop with all the missiles and everything else. We want peace, everybody wants peace, nobody wants war."
 
