Music Artists You'd Like to Perform at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics Opening Ceremonies
Vote here if you want this performer to sing in the Tokyo Olympics opening ceremonies 2020. Don't agree with the list? Vote for an existing item you think should be ranked higher or if you are a logged in, add a new item for others to vote on or create your own version of this list.
The Top Ten
1 One Ok Rock
What do I feel when I hear "ONE OK ROCK"? I'm so excited! Why? Becouse it's the best band I've ever heard. I can't explain this... I love them because of them. My only reason why I like them so much is that I love their characters. Toru, Ryota, Tomoya and Taka are so, so, so natural on a stage. They have amazing contact with their fans, all of the world. I was at ONE OK ROCK's concert in London. It was the best experience in my life. they made awesome performance and awesome show! I think that they can do this again at everyone of their concerts, on the Olympic Games in Tokyo 2020 too. So I think they're the best band to give performance at this time! Do you agree with me, Clockers? MAKE SOME NOISE!
They are the best band ever!
They are an absolutely great rock band and recently, they are starting to get the recognition they deserve not only in Japan and Asia, but also in Europe and America. Their lyrics are so positive and their melodies are not banal. The members are modest and really respect their fans and you can see how grateful they are for being able to live their dream... And, above all, the energy they give at live performances! There is no other band like that in the whole world!
PLEASE LET IT HAPPEN - MasonOcker
V 1083 Comments
2 Hatsune Miku
Hatsune Miku, sometimes referred to as Miku Hatsune, is a humanoid persona voiced by a singing synthesizer application developed by Crypton Future Media.
Far beyond a mere music artist, Miku is an icon of global cooperation, understanding, and collaboration. The Olympics should be honoured to have her grace their stage.
Miku brings everyone together, for love of music, art, and life itself. I always have been amazed at the revolutionary unity which she created, bringing us all together, and then leading us into the future.
That is why I'm a Vocaloid fan. And Miku started it all.
Without a doubt, Miku is the next generation of rock, pop, any kind of musical styled star with no boundaries. And her popularity is growing every hour throughout the world. Miku is pure love, pure artistic masterpiece of an exsistance that ever graced this planet. Miku brings nothing but peace and love for her fans that she embraces all over the world.
MIKU number 1 - boy123sss
V 1443 Comments
3 L'Arc-en-Ciel
L'Arc-en-Ciel is a Japanese rock band, founded in Osaka in 1991. With a reported 40 million records sold, they were the first Japanese act to headline at Madison Square Garden.
They're the best to show to the world what Japanese bands can do. Also L'Arc~en~Ciel is the band that has more fans overseas, and for me (and many fans) is the emblematic band of Japan. They are one of the few bands who have had the privilege of playing in National Stadium (3 times). For this and many reasons they are the ones who should play in the Olympics. No one will do it better than they!
The best rock band Japan has ever produced. Sold out shows, world tours, pulled off an intense night at Madison square garden, beautiful beautiful lyrics and experience to top that off.
There isn't a better band to represent Japan's versatility and extent of music. From contemporary pop to electro, heart rending ballads, strong beats, to well-worn rock. L'Arc~en~Ciel has done it all and are still doing it all!
Plus plus plus, we all get to hear hyde voice open the show. So why not?
Olympics or not, Laruku are my undisputed kings.
They've been around for over 20 years now. They've played some of the biggest venues in the world, including London's O2, Japan's National Stadium, and headlined Madison Square Garden in NYC. They've got a variety of songs and they cover all sorts of genres and types. Their music is beautiful and amazing and have already written songs for the Olympics, specifically the 2010 Olympics for which they created the song "BLESS". Overall, they're the best band to play at the 2020 Opening Ceremonies.
hyde
V 844 Comments
4 Dimash Kudaibergen
This incredibly talented young artist from Kazakhstan had his international breakthrough only recently with a sensational success at the Chinese T.V. contest "Singer 2017". He's appeared in a great number of concerts and gala events since, winning award after award, and his fanbase continues to grow at an enormous pace. Dimash wows the crowds with stellar performances of pop and folk songs from all over the world sung in their original languages. His voice is characterized by an angelic beauty, and its range of pitch and dynamics doesn't seem to know any boundaries. Dimash is stunningly handsome, and his gentleness and particularly good manners are appreciated by audiences worldwide. All these qualities would make him an ideal ambassador of the Olympic spirit. - Beihilfebeleg
Who better to unite the world with one Voice? That would be Sir Dimash. The greatest new vocalist in the world. Do yourself a favor and listen, then you'll understand what the world is saying about this young man. Peace & Love...
He brings gifted and mind boggling vocals, passion, a huge heart and incredible presence. He is an obvious choice for this event!
With his incredible voice, he would carry the Olympics! - Joyinlife
V 1028 Comments
5 Arashi
Arashi of course! They will cheer up the ceremony and give a real taste of what's popular in Japan! Sure, some people say they don't want a Johnny's Entertainment Group but in the end if London managed to get One Direction I don't see why ARASHI can't. They are the most popular JE artist and it doesn't matter if the artists aren't intenationally known because this is Tokyo Olympics- sure; it's international but this is a ceremony to celebrate Japanese artists. It doesn't matter what the other countries think of ARASHI because they don't know the real ARASHI; the boys who have a real bond KIZUNA! They are needed in the Ceremony as any J-Pop fan would have heard of ARASHI whether they like them or not! If we want to give the world a flavour of Japan's music then it's not going to work- let's face it- ARASHI (and AKB48) are the most popular idols especially ARASHI! Arashi rocks! They can sing in Japanese- most of their songs has bits of Japanese in it any way! Long live Arashi <3! ... more
I agree! I know that there a J-POP fans, Japan lovers all over the world who we all love! But as a Japanese person, myself I know that ARASHI is the most popular artist right now (and it looks like they will for a long long time). I don't have anything against Vocaloid but in Japan, there are Vocaloid fans (usually the kids that love anime/Akihabara) but Vocaloid isn't actually that well known to kids. Some kids just haven't heard of Vocaloid because ARASHI and other artists appeal so much more! Whoever they choose, I know all the Arashi fans out there (and that is a LOT OF PEOPLE in japan) will back them up! Come on, boys!
Amazing! Simply the best! Need them there to brighten up the ceremony, and they will do just that. It would be cool to have them talking too, because they r pretty funny, though I guess it would be hard as they will have 2 talk in Japanese, so non-japanese won't be able to understand.
I think Arashi is Japan's best of best Idol.
I love they and their music, programs, and concert.
And I'm respect Arashi's pro mind.
I learned about Japanese feelings because of Arashi.
I also began to be interested in Japan.
If it was not for them, I would not care about Japan and would be locked in a world of limited music.
I am learning Japanese now because of them.
Many of my friends also keep expressing interest in Arashi.
I think Arashi has a lot of clout here.
They're making a lot of money doing things in Japan, and I know they're busy.
However, I think it would be a good opportunity for both Japan and Arashi if Arashi had the opportunity to perform and convey the Japanese musical ability at the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics.
Let the world know if they are ignoring Japan's music and idol markets.
I think Arashi's Japonism is a good album to introduce both Arashi and Japan.
Arashi is also singing the Olympic song each time, so the ... more
V 1745 Comments
6 The Gazette
The Gazette, originally known as Gazette, is a Japanese visual kei rock band from Kanagawa formed in early 2002. The band is currently signed to Sony Music Records.
In mi opinion, it is the best way for opening c: Russian girls love the GazettE
The GazettE have always been able to understand me and they have touched my heart as I know they have touched many others around the world. They are loved and adored by their fans as they feel the same way for us and I'd love for them to have the chance to be recognized for their hard work and dedication to their music and for the world to be able to hear them play their beautiful music at the Olympics! We are all Sixth Guns and we love the GazettE! GazeRock Is Not Dead!
Even if it isn't that big, Visual Kei is still a part of Japan's culture. And I think GazettE is a great example of this worldwide, so it's only natural they would perform~! Also I really would love to see them like, come on..
I love them - Marvel_1William
7 KAT-TUN
KAT-TUN is not perfect in dance, because they are KAT-TUN
KAT-TUN's member-ai is not your so all-perfect-I-Love-You to one another, because they don't want to cheapen their relationship
KAT-TUN's voices are not the best yet they're indeed improving, Yuuki No Hana and Sweet Chain are indeed the facts
KAT-TUN is only one, and I'm proud to be one of their not perfect fans.
Well, because nobody's perfect, you know?
Kattun deserves to be there!
They are powerful, they are young. they show you the hope, they can tell you what is persistence.
Moreover，kame and ueda are good at baseball and boxing, how qualified!
KAT-TUN is not perfect,but they sound can bring power and hope to people.
Their songs are very good!
Whether it is dynamic song or lyric song.
And they also have their own favorite sport.
Kamenashi likes baseball
