winter olympics
Pranksters steal the show at Opening Ceremony
FROM afar it looked like two of the world’s most outspoken leaders had made peace — but it all went downhill fast for this pair.
news.com.au February 10, 20181:18pm
From a glance it looked as if these two had sorted it all out.Source:Supplied
IF YOU weren’t paying close attention, you’d be easily fooled into thinking Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump, two of the world’s most fiery adversaries, had made peace at the Opening Ceremony of the Winter Olympics.
World leaders flocked to PyeongChang for the blockbuster opening night of the 2018 Games, including US Vice President Mike Pence, who sat inches away from Kim’s sister Kim’s Yo-jong during the firework-laden display.
But while all eyes were on the big wigs in the box seats, mischief was unfolding in the stands.
Two unnamed pranksters pulled off a crafty piece of debauchery on South Korea’s night of nights, making light of the unstable relationship between the American President and North Korea’s controversial leader.
Dressed from top to toe with a red USA cap, “Donald Trump” was joined by a freshly bowl-cut mate and paraded around the crowd.
They were reportedly seen holding hands after declaring their stunt was an act of peace. Fans in the lower stands frantically whipped out their smartphones to film the bizarre act.
The lighthearted display didn’t last long as pair ran into security troubles and were shafted out of the arena.
Look who’s here. (Not really.) pic.twitter.com/iABW5JTiJG
— Chelsea Janes (@chelsea_janes) February 9, 2018
Here’s a bad picture of the Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un impersonators who just caused a big commotion in one section of the Olympic stands! pic.twitter.com/6YD9sR7kxy
— Andrew Keh (@andrewkeh) February 9, 2018
The two Koreas marched together and South Korea’s president shared a historic handshake with Kim Jong Un’s sister as the PyeongChang Winter Olympics opened in a spirit of intense rapprochement on Friday.
At a glittering but subzero ceremony, South and North Korea brought the crowd to its feet as they entered behind the blue-and-white Korean unification flag.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in shook the hand of a smiling Kim Yo Jong, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, as he entered the VIP seating section, and again as the Korean athletes marched.
From a glance it looked as if these two had sorted it all out.Source:Supplied
It cemented what has been a rapid improvement in Korean ties since North Korea — after months of fierce nuclear rhetoric and missile tests — agreed last month to attend its first Olympics in the South.
Kim Yo Jong, the first member of the North’s ruling dynasty to venture South since the Korean War, forms part of the highest level delegation ever to cross the border.
South and North Korea last marched together at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. They also made the symbolic gesture at the opening of the 2000 and 2004 Olympics in Sydney and Athens.
“You will inspire us all to live together in peace and harmony despite all the differences we have,” said International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach, before Moon declared the Games open.
“You will inspire us by competing for the highest honour in the Olympic spirit of excellence, respect and fair play,” said Bach.
“You can only enjoy your Olympic performance if you respect the rules and stay clean.”
— with AFP
