Canada’s Olympic House Has An Important Message At Its Entrance
The Olympics just started but Canada has already won.
By Jackie Marchildon
Feb. 9, 2018
The Olympics officially kicked off on Friday and there’s already much to be discussed, but perhaps the biggest event so far in Pyeongchang, South Korea, is the message included at the entrance of Canada’s Olympic House.
“Within these walls where those with Olympic hearts come to gather, you are welcomed, accepted and respected,” it reads. “This is your house no matter who you are or where you come from.”
Canada’s Olympic House is also the official host of Pride House during the 2018 Olympic Winter Games.
Take Action:  Call on the Commonwealth to Tackle Gender Inequality, Poverty and Disease
The first Pride House opened its doors in Canada at the Vancouver 2010 Olympics and Paralympics. Since then, it has been to many important sporting events, including the London 2012 and Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, according to Around the Rings .
In what is a historic first, Canada House is the official host of ️‍Pride House throughout the Games.
Pride House was created to be an inclusive and safe space for LGBT athletes, fans and allies from all over the world.
— Devin Heroux (@Devin_Heroux) February 8, 2018
The Pride venue inside the Canada Olympic House is meant to welcome LGBTQ2 athletes, fans, and allies during the games.
“The COC stands behind its commitment of inclusion and diversity in the global sport landscape,” said Chris Overholt, CEO and secretary general of the Canadian Olympic Committee, in a statement . “We recognize that diversity is our greatest strength. Inclusion is the very foundation of what makes the heart of Team Canada. By hosting Pride House in our Canada Olympic House, we are extending our warmest welcome to all from every corner of the world to celebrate ‘Be Olympic’.”
Never enough red and white at Canada Olympic House!  Step inside and see where #TeamCanada 's athletes and fans will be gathered during #PyeongChang2018  pic.twitter.com/kOCpFDuxx0
Read More:  These 18 Athletes Are Smashing Gender Conventions
The sign at the front door is meant to welcome everyone and to celebrate our differences.
“You are at home, regardless of your sex, sexual orientation, race, marital or family status, gender identity or expression, sex characteristics, creed, age, colour, disability, political or religious belief,” the sign reads.
It is the first time a Pride House has come to Asia and it’s the first time a National Olympic Committee has formally take on the concept, according to Keph Senett , Pride House International trustee.
Zoom in and look at those smiles! #TeamCanada athletes aren't holding back their excitement for #PyeongChang2018 . #OpeningCeremony pic.twitter.com/PxZymu9uzi
Read More:  18 Times Politics Trumped Sport in Olympic Games’ History
Pride House International believes in promoting equality and diversity in sport, through sport and by sport.
“All that we ask is that you be respectful of all Olympic competitors, make some noise and cheer the loudest for the ones wearing the red and white maple leaf!” the sign reminds.
The house will officially be open to fans on Feb. 10, 2018.
Global Citizen campaigns on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including issues related to citizenship and equality. You can take action here .
