olympics 2018
Bermuda Wore Shorts to the Freezing Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony. The Internet Is Impressed.
Flag bearer Tucker Murphy of Bermuda and teammates enter the stadium during the Opening Ceremony of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games at PyeongChang Olympic Stadium on Feb. 9, 2018.
Dean Mouhtaropoulos—Getty Images
By Tara John
February 9, 2018
Freezing weather did not stop the Bermuda delegation from wearing bright red shorts and blazers for the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea .
Cross-country skier Tucker Murphy, who was accompanied by his coach Pepa Miloucheva and assistant coach Waxer Jeff Shaw, wore Bermuda shorts, named after the Caribbean territory, despite the cold temperatures— that dipped below 30 degrees Fahrenheit.
“That’s normal,” Dexter Smith, editor of Bermuda’s Royal Gazette newspaper, told USA Today . “At the Olympic Games, winter or summer, we’re pretty much famous for our Bermuda shorts. …It’s not a novelty. Not be any stretch.’”
The Bermudan delegates were not the only islanders that were under-dressed. Tonga’s Pita Taufatofua marched oiled and bare-chested during the ceremony as well.
Their frigid march comes a day after the British island territory became the world’s first jurisdiction to legalize and then repeal same-sex marriage, which critics say is rollback of civil liberties.
See the reactions to the bold choice of attire below.
Damn… These athletes from Bermuda are either insanely tough or forgot to check the weather❄️ #OpeningCeremony pic.twitter.com/kaD1ciw7Gf
— Gabriella Cook (@gabycook92) February 9, 2018
BERMUDA ARE WEARING SHORTS. REPEAT. SHORTS. #OpeningCeremony pic.twitter.com/5b9kTlIBoc
— Scott Bryan (@scottygb) February 9, 2018
So it’s about 20 degrees here in #Pyeongchang and a windchill in single digits but the team from Bermuda is wearing… wait for it – #Bermuda shorts. Give em a gold #Olympics #BermudaTough pic.twitter.com/UPJrfnCy79
— Matt Gutman (@mattgutmanABC) February 9, 2018
The team from Bermuda wearing actual Bermuda SHORTS in freezing weather for the Opening Ceremony of the Winter Olympics is the most iconic example of committing to your truth I’ve ever seen. Yaaaassssss queens.
— Amelia Gray McMillan (@ameliagmcmillan) February 9, 2018
SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT
