FCA supports Christian athletes during Winter Olympics
Before they reached the Winter Games, FCA Magazine shared the faith of four American Olympians.
Published on February 09, 2018
by Nate Taylor
FCA staff writer
Every four years, the world's best come together for the highest possible competition. The athletes and their coaches come from different countries, various backgrounds and familiar dreams. The 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, Korea, will feature several triumphs and inspirational stories.
 
For two weeks, the Games will promote unity to the world. Several influential coaches and athletes during the competition will bring, display and profess their Christian faith on the international stage. As a sports ministry, FCA supports all the Christian coaches and athletes who will compete in the Winter Games.
 
In the latest edition of FCA Magazine , four American athletes shared their faith testimonies. Each athlete - Kelly Clark, Elana Meyers Taylor, Nic Taylor and Gigi Marvin - explained how they incorporate their relationship with Jesus Christ with their sport. Before competing in front of millions of people, the group of athletes, along with many other believers, understand they are already victorious through God.
 
FCA encourages its supporters learn more about the athletes featured in FCA Magazine and to follow the group on their Olympic journey.
Kelly Clark became a believer in 2004.
Kelly Clark, women's halfpipe snowboard
 
At age 34, Clark is one of the most decorated and remarkable athletes in the Olympics. Not only is she the greatest snowboarder in halfpipe history, she's also expected to contend for a medal in her unprecedented fifth Games.
 
Once disillusioned by the sport, Clark find our eternal purpose when she became a Christian in 2004. Since then, her influential rise has been both miraculous and impactful to the next generation of snowboarders.
 
"My ministry, and what God is doing in my life, is really found in my career in the marketplace," she said in the magazine . "I'm in an industry where it's very foreign and it's very counter-cultural. I get to love these people really well who would never step foot in a church."
 
The women's halfpipe competition begins Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. EST. The finals are Feb. 13 at 8 p.m. EST.
 
How you can follow Clark
 
