Illinois Olympians: Team USA Members Competing In Winter Olympics
Here are the Illinois residents who will represent the U.S. at the winter games in Pyeongchang.
Jan 8, 2018 6:10 pm ET
| Updated
0
The world will be watching next month as the 2018 Olympic Winter Games kick off in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Here in Illinois, we'll have plenty of local athletes to cheer on as the games begin on Feb. 9. They'll be among the 2,800 athletes from more than 85 countries participating in 15 different sports during the games. This year marks the second time South Korea has hosted the Olympics.
From seasoned veterans making their first appearance at the Olympics to young novices, here's a look at local members of Team USA:
Figure skating
Bradie Tennell , Carpentersville: The 19-year-old won her first figure skating national championship and a spot on the U.S. Olympic team.
Alexa Scimeca Knierim , Addison: She battled back from a debilitating illness to win a spot on the Olympic pairs figure skating team alongside her husband and partner, Christopher Knierim.
Ice hockey
Kendall Coyne , Palos Heights: The 25-year-old will be making her second appearance at the Olympics.
Long track speedskating
Shani Davis , Chicago: The 35-year-old — who was the first African-American to win a gold medal at an individual sport at the Winter Olympics — will head to the winter games for the fifth time.
Brian Hansen , Glenview: Hansen, who won a silver medal at the 2010 Olympics in Vancounver, will head to the Olympics for the third time.
Emery Lehman , Oak Park: The 21-year-old first competed in the Olympics in 2014, when he was a senior at Oak Park-River Forest High School.
Short track speedskating
Lana Gehring , Glenview: The 27-year-old bronze medalist will be making her second appearance at the Olympics.
Ski jumping
Michael Glasder , Cary: The third time was the charm for the veteran local ski jumper, who qualified Sunday for his first Olympics after narrowly missing out on the previous two U.S. teams.
Photo by Koki Nagahama/Getty Images
