Pyeongchang games: Norwegian Olympics team orders 15,000 eggs by mistake
Officials were left in shell-shock by an egg-streme turn of events which left their culinary plans scrambled
Thursday 8 February 2018 12:34 GMT
Click to follow
The Independent Sport
An Olympic issue athlete-ready egg Getty
The chefs for the Norwegian Olympic team were left with egg on their faces after a grocery order got lost in translation.
Keeping a team of finely tuned athletes fed and happy throughout the rigours of the winter Olympics is no small task. Like all ambitious nations at the games, the Norwegians have enlisted a small team of elite chefs.
Veterans of numerous Olympics past, these chefs are leading experts in their fields and know exactly what type of nourishment is required to keep the Norwegian Olympians in peak physical condition, and they know the range of flavours that are needed to keep morale high.
Winter Olympics 2018: 9 British medal hopefuls to watch
Winter Olympics 2018: 9 British medal hopefuls to watch
1/9 Lizzy Yarnold
Lizzy Yarnold won Team GB’s first gold medal of the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games after dominating the women's skeleton from start to finish. She hs recently take some time away from the sport before returning with the aim of defending her title at PyeongChang 2018.
Getty Images
2/9 Jenny Jones
Jenny Jones set Britain alight with slopestyle fever when she produced a spectacular display at Sochi 2014 to take Olympic bronze. having spent a winter in Tignes as a chalet maid, she took up snowboarding, quickly winning everything she entered, included three Winter X Games golds between 2009 and 2010.
Getty Images
3/9 Jamie Nicholls
Jamie Nicholls became the first British male snowboarder to win a World Cup event in 2016. The Bradford-born athlete took up the sport aged seven at Halifax Ski and Snowboard centre, but by the age of 13 he was already considered one of the best UK snowboarders. At the 2014 Olympic Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, Nicholls finished sixth overall.
Getty Images
4/9 James Woods
James Woods won five consecutive British National Championships in slopestyle between 2007 and 2011. Woods suffered a hip injury in training for the 2014 Sochi Olympic Winter Games, but finished a remarkable fifth in the slopestyle. After winning the Big Air competition to take a first ever Winter X Games gold medal in 2017, the Brit went on to take Winter X Games Europe bronze in slopestyle before repeating the feat at the World Championships a week later.
AFP/Getty Images
5/9 Elise Christie
Elise Christie was born in Livingston and moved to Nottingham when she was 15 in order to pursue her sporting dream. After representing Great Britain at the 2010 Olympic Winter Games, Christie enjoyed the most successful season ever by a British female short track speed skater in 2012/13 - finishing the campaign ranked top in the 1000m world rankings, with two European gold medals to her name. Following three disqualifications at Sochi 2014, the 12-time World medallist will be confident of improving on her previous Olympic best result of 11th in the 500m at Vancouver 2010.
AFP/Getty Images
6/9 Eve Muirhead
Eve Muirhead became the youngest ever skip to win a Winter Olympic medal when she guided Team GB to bronze at Sochi 2014 in what was her second Winter Olympic appearance. A four-time world junior champion, Muirhead has won multiple European and World senior medals – including a second gold at the 2017 European Championships – and will once again skip Team GB’s women’s curling rink in PyeongChang.
AFP/Getty Images
7/9 Dave Ryding
Dave Ryding shocked the alpine skiing world when he claimed Britain’s first World Cup skiing podium for 36 years with slalom silver in Kitzbuhel in January 2017. The man from Bretherton had almost made another trip to the podium in Stockholm in the parallel slalom, but finished an agonising fourth, just 0.06 seconds off a bronze medal. Ryding competed at the Vancouver and Sochi Olympic Winter Games, finishing 17th in the slalom in Russia, and achieved his highest World Championship placing in 2017 when he came 11th.
Getty Images
8/9 Charlotte Gilmartin
Charlotte Gilmartin began competing as a junior speed skater for Great Britain aged just 15, before rising through the ranks to regularly compete on the world stage. In January 2016, Gilmartin won 3000m gold and overall silver at the European Championships and added 500m bronze a year later.
Getty Images
9/9 Andrew Musgrave
Andrew Musgrave’s first outing at the Olympic Winter Games came at Vancouver 2010 where he finished 51st in the 15km + 15km double pursuit, 55th in the 15km freestyle race and 58th in the individual sprint. In 2014, he competed in his second Olympic Winter Games in Sochi where he qualified 27th for the individual sprint before finishing 44th in the 15km classical and 53rd in the 50km freestyle. The Dorset-born athlete finished fourth in the 50km freestyle at the 2017 World Championships – a higher placing than any previously achieved by a British Nordic skier.
Getty Images
They do not, however, speak, read or write Korean to any standard whatsoever. Having put their trust in the free translation service Google Translate, the chefs received an eggy surprise when one of their first big grocery orders arrived.
“We received half a truckload of eggs”, chef Ståle Johansen told Norwegian news agency NTB. The Norwegians had received a total of 15000 eggs, instead of the 1500 they had attempted to order.
Winter Olympics in Korea could avoid nuclear war – for now
Johansen, who is cooking for the Norwegians at the Olympics for the eighth time, had no trouble seeing the funny side of the mishap. “Fortunately we were able to return most of it”, he said. “But we were quite surprised when they came carrying the eggs. There was just no end to it. Incredible!”.
Cooking for the Norwegian athletes at the Winter Olympics is no small undertaking. “The biggest challenge is that we will be serving food almost round the clock. We have both skiers and biathlon here, so there will be food from half past seven in the morning and until almost two am at night. I know what they like and what they don't like”.
But if the Norway's Olympic ambitions are to bear fruit, they may have to find a more reliable method of translating their food orders.
