show comments
There’s no better time to recognize American exceptionalism than during the Olympics.
We’re officially underway in South Korea for the 2018 winter Olympics, and it’s time to remind the world what America is all about. I doubt anybody forgot, but we’d be foolish not to embrace any opportunity we can to celebrate this beautiful country.
America is without question the greatest country on this planet, and I don’t want to hear any of the communist propaganda that pretends otherwise. We dominate at everything. You ever heard of World War I and WWII? Yeah, no big deal. We just went back-to-back with world war victories. The Nazis thought they could conquer Europe. The men in green combat fatigues with M1s and Thompson submachine guns had very different plans for Hitler and the Third Reich.
We stuck a boot up the butts of the Axis powers, and have been a beacon for hope and freedom ever since.
Don’t even get me started on our sports. We’re less than a week removed from the Super Bowl, which is all you need to know about the USA’s relationship with sports. I was half a case deep before the pregame even kicked in. That’s what freedom is all about. We have the freedom in this country to do a keg stand while March Madness plays in the background. Can any other country say that? Didn’t think so.
During the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, I started firing up the brats at six in the morning while it was below zero outside. You can’t watch America play Canada in hockey and not have beers and brats ready to go. Sure, we might have lost that game, but anytime you’re drinking beer, eating brats and watching hockey it’s a real win for America. Do you think North Korea has people up before the sun rises crushes beers chanting patriotic stuff? Hell no.
Also, you ever heard about the Miracle on Ice? It’s not really a big deal at all. Nobody in America really even talks about it. It was just a minor moment in 1980 when a bunch of college kids decided to beat the Soviet Union and win the gold medal in hockey. Like I said, just one of the fun minor moments. Nobody really likes to brag about it.
What about our women? Everybody knows America has the hottest women on the planet. Don’t believe me? Feel free to take a gander at the pictures below.
